SPEAKER_02: Hello, hello.

SPEAKER_00: Hello, hello. Great to see you, my friend. So we are here. We are here in Prague, in beautiful Prague. Dark Prague, the inaugural... Dark Prague Zero Congress, conference, I'm not quite sure what you'd call it. But yeah, delighted to talk to you today, really within a context of this early days of Ethereum project that I've been looking at. And one of the things I remember seeing earliest was the two EMEAs that you had capitalist Amir and anarchist Amir. So tell me, you know, before all that started even, you know, how did your... Just curious, how come you're doing this project? How come I'm doing it? Yeah, yeah, what's the... Well, it was quite, I mean, it was quite coincidental, you know, I'd... I'd gathered a bunch of information back in 2017, 2018. Basically because Ming Chan was getting hoofed out and I asked Vitalik if what I could do to help, you know, anything with help with the transition or whatever. And he said, can you can you like go and talk to people in the community and sort of see what they think the Ethereum Foundation should be like? What should we be doing?

SPEAKER_02: Oh dear, if you ask that question, it's already a bad sign.

SPEAKER_00: Well, my question at that point was, so Ming was terrible. She was one of the least professional people I've ever worked with. She was an absolute nightmare. And my thought was, well... what the hell was happening before that, that she looked like a good choice. And there was a real sort of shroud of mystery as to what had happened then, even though it was only like three or four years before. And so like, there just was no canonical history. Nobody really knew what happened. Even something as basic as like, was Charles like kind of a co-founder or not? He kind of says he was maybe, but maybe he wasn't. Which is just crazy, because he was there doing videos and there's just tons of evidence. But anyway, so I started digging back into that stuff. What about Anthony Di Iorio as well? Anthony Di Iorio, yes, that's right.

SPEAKER_02: Didn't he get rocked or something?

SPEAKER_00: There was Anthony Di Iorio.

SPEAKER_02: I don't know the history.

SPEAKER_00: There was Anthony D'Onofrio that was Texture. And there was another guy called Anthony Euphamio who did this Digix Gold thing. But anyway, that's where I started getting interested in Ethereum history. It's just like, well, what the hell happened? I mean, what ended up happening is everything I recommended to Vitalik never happened. It was just completely... a disaster. You know, Ming went and he just got AYA. Here you go. It's a new one. No changes. What people wanted was like transparency. They wanted community input. They wanted like professional executive, like operational. It's like, you know, let's have organization to help the devs basically. Um, but primarily it was like, don't be a Swiss opaque foundation with no accountability or any public information at all. Anyway. So I put the stuff aside at that point. It's like, great. That was a good use of my time, you know, advising the millionaire for free for months. Um, but then just recently, um, so uh the guys i now work with they um started recording some videos uh because um so kieran is uh kieran james lubin is joe's son so he was actually around from march 2014 um and the others were sort of involved from 2015 and they were just like we should like get some of these memories down, right? It was like eight years ago at that point. So they did a couple of those videos and I really loved them and I was making tons of notes and finding links and photos and all of this. And then they interviewed me for the third one But then more recently, I did interviews with Taylor Goering and with Texture and just tons of stuff came out of that. And then I just kind of like shoved those together and there you go. That's early days of Ethereum is this sort of combination of sort of biographical stuff and photos and videos, links to articles and then, you know, conversations with people. And it's really just because it's like this is history, right?

SPEAKER_02: This stuff was crazy seeing being in crypto since like, you know, almost the beginning and seeing the stuff that happens, but seeing what got recorded.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: And it's like, wow, like history really is just written by the victors.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: It's just, it's crazy.

SPEAKER_00: So the one thing on that score, which I don't know if you know, is so the original Bitcoin talk post for announcing Ethereum. So that was done on the 23rd of January 2014, right? Just before the Bitcoin Miami. That page got changed. Oh, what the fuck? about eight months later, probably around August, September, it got it got quick edited. And a whole load of people that were there got written out.

SPEAKER_02: Oh, you mean like just somebody?

SPEAKER_00: Well, I mean, I guess you can edit Bitcoin talk pages.

SPEAKER_02: But what about the people getting deleted and stuff?

SPEAKER_00: So yeah, just a whole bunch of people got deleted out.

SPEAKER_02: By who? The admins?

SPEAKER_00: Well, by Vitalik, I imagine.

SPEAKER_02: But how do you edit people out of your thread?

SPEAKER_00: No, no. The original post said, hey, we're Ethereum, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. This is the team. This is what we're doing. I see. So that post, which at the start went, look, here's about the 30 people that are working on things, went down to, oh, right, Charles and Amir. Well, Amir, I don't think, was in the original post because he didn't want to be. But Charles got edited out. Stefan and Taylor Guerin got edited in. And all the rest of the team got shoved off the page. Yeah. But, you know, many, many people that were involved early, you know, they're just like forgotten. You know, if you go back to early Internet Archive versions, you can find some names. So, I mean, some people... like Mr. Ryan Taylor over here. So Ryan worked on all the early websites for months. You know, these pages that thousands or tens of thousands of people have seen as, you know, this is the main Ethereum page. Nobody knew who did it. I didn't know. Like, you know, just on one of the early ones, just for a little while, it just said, like, Ryan Taylor Web. I don't know who Ryan Taylor is, like, so a number of these names, you know, I don't know who they are or maybe start to find them and basically, you know, it's like the work of many hands, right? This is something I was talking about is, you know, you've got like great man theory, right? The thought that you have these exceptional people and by amazing powers of, you know, intellectual skills and power of force that they bend the universe to their will. And, you know, that's kind of the story that people like.

SPEAKER_02: It's kind of like feudalism. It's like you pledge your allegiance to his liege. That's right. And if your liege becomes popular, you will, like, gain through him. You will live vicariously.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: That's how the tech world operates.

UNKNOWN: Right.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, well, you know, like people are looking for heroes and, you know, they're champions to cheer. You know, in the highest case, you know, something like North Korea, they literally think the leader is, you know, is a god. You know, they're just crying in front of him, just... Wow, that sounds amazing. So, yeah, I'm trying to record the real truth and give people their voices and just make sure stuff doesn't get lost, right? So many things have already been lost.

SPEAKER_02: Pete Rizzo did that for Bitcoin. Right. He did really, really deep history of Bitcoin stuff.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah. So... You should check him out as well. Yeah. So, yeah, I'm finding stuff. And, you know, you shared your old YouTube channel with me as well. You seem to have a reasonable number of artefacts of various ages that have been preserved about you.

SPEAKER_02: It's funny because I was just filming and I was just putting my video camera on the internet on YouTube. So that's why I have that page.

SPEAKER_00: Right. It's funny. There's a guy called Freddie Hartline who was one of the guys that started the main kind of like, it was like Bitcoin co-working space or whatever in Vancouver. But he was saying he's got loads of stuff on his Facebook account of all things. Basically, even though it's like as boomer as you can imagine, it's like, yep, loads of other people have had things on so many other platforms and everything. They've all got lost and fucked. I've just posted shit on my Facebook page and it's up there forever. Obviously, preserving things yourself is way better than relying on any of these platforms, but yeah, like so much stuff is just like rotted because people have deleted their accounts or like a platform isn't around anymore or just, you know, general, general kind of rot. But, uh,

SPEAKER_02: Everything I have from the survived is because I uploaded it to like a normie platform. Yes. Well, this is it. I like periodically have like a cleanse cleansing, like a non is no accidental, but it's just like, every few years, you know, your data just reset to zero. Yeah, yeah, it sucks. But you know,

SPEAKER_00: Well, that's it. Yeah. I mean, so, yeah, that was Freddie's super normie story is still using Facebook even though, you know, it's Facebook. So, yeah, I mean, you know, you were a... you're a free software guy and a general developer on that thread and early early Bitcoin dev so like how did you find Bitcoin?

SPEAKER_02: So I was working on free software for five, six years. And then I became a professional poker player.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: That was for over two years. And the poker sites, you're playing against other players. Right. But the way the sites operate, the platform, they take a cut. out of every uh every pot basically every game that you play right so but the sites charge a huge amount of fees for like a really crappy service so i had this idea what if um you could have a p2p site then it wouldn't have rake and fees right So I had like the design for it, but then the main issue was the payment system. And so then I was on IRC in this channel with other anarcho-hackers I know. And I was telling them about that. And this guy is like a mathematician that worked for the W3C. His name's Melvin. He dumped just like 10 links in there. And they're like random open source projects for money. And there's stuff like Letts. Have you heard of Letts? No, no. At one point, people were really into that. But it's like... I think it's like offering your labor, you get like a token or something, but anyway. So I was like going through all of these links and they were going, no, no, no, no. I saw Bitcoin, I opened the page for Bitcoin, it goes, Bitcoin is a P2P currency that cannot be controlled by governments or central banks. And I was like, that's garbage. Obviously not. Because there's loads of random projects like that on SourceForge back in the day. I once saw a Jurassic Park video game and it was going... Like, you could do everything. You can punch through the walls, you can hack the terminals, you can hunt the dinosaurs. And I was like, whoa, sounds amazing. And I checked the code and it said, like, main.cpp. And it had, like, just, you know.

SPEAKER_00: One file.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, like, it just got bored of it. It just wrote the idea. Right, right. And then, like, I kept checking months every so often. And there was, like, zero progress on that. So I thought Bitcoin was, like, one of those kind of projects. I went, no, no, no, no, no. I was like, oh, they're all shit. So I was like, okay, let's take a deeper look at all of them then. And so then when it came to Bitcoin one, I downloaded the source code and I started going through the source code and I was like, oh, that's really interesting. First of all, Bitcoin source code is about 15,000 lines of code at that time. Yeah. Which, you know, 15,000 lines of code. It's actually a small amount of lines of code. Like some programmers can even do that in like a week or something. Like very talented programmers. So I was like, oh, but it's not nothing either. It's not like that Jurassic Park game I was just describing. So it's like 20, you know, 15,000 lines of code like less.

SPEAKER_00: You can read through and kind of understand that pretty well.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, so I printed it all out and I covered it all over my floor.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: You know, it's like my pornography that I'm looking at. I started studying it.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: And it started to make sense. I was like, oh, very interesting. Oh, interesting. And so when I figured out how it worked, I was like, whoa, this is amazing. I'm going to work on this.

SPEAKER_00: So what month do you think that was?

SPEAKER_02: That was the summer of 2010. Right. So that's when I, like, basically, I was like, okay, I'm just doing this from now on. And so then I had, like, then I made, like, a plan of, like, oh, in 10 years we'll be here, et cetera.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right.

SPEAKER_02: Because this is, like, a long-term thing I'm going to work on. But then that basically just happened really quickly. I just started growing massively. So it's pretty crazy. But I started working on Bitcoin. So writing code, you know, I was one of the first five Bitcoin developers, which I was listed on Bitcoin dog.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: But that page is gone from the Internet. So people it's like maybe maybe it got archived. No, I don't think so.

SPEAKER_00: No, just gone.

SPEAKER_02: The very first Bitcoin webpage with the list of names. Right. So, like, I had a war with Gavin Andreessen. Yep. Because he was, like, he's a motherfucker, like, in many ways. Basically, he really likes regulations and the state and stuff like that. He's a statist, and he's into the banks and stuff. But also, he was just not that good a dev. And when there was other young devs that were coming up, instead of trying to nurture them, he was instead trying to push them out and try and keep control. So I became his main enemy, basically. I was like his first enemy.

SPEAKER_00: It seemed like he never wanted the role even. He just sort of got given it.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, he kind of lucked into it. And then he was there and he was like, oh, I want to keep it. I really like it. So, yeah, I went to the very first event presenting Bitcoin to an audience of bankers. And so I did my talk and afterwards Gavin Andrees and he DM me and he goes, I think you should not talk at conferences ever again. I was like, who the fuck is this guy? You're not in charge of a project. Fuck you.

SPEAKER_00: Was this in London or in the US? Amsterdam. Amsterdam, right.

SPEAKER_02: But anyway, so... You know, one of the first things that Gav Andreessen did was to try and get my name off of that list. He got his name added. But anyway.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: So he was like that. And, you know...

SPEAKER_00: I mean, did you end up starting Libitcoin quite early then?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, 2011, yeah. Like March 2011 or something.

SPEAKER_00: And was that around the same time as Bips? Was that kind of like you were coordinating that? It's kind of like, right, we need specs, we need multiple clients.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, because... Gavin saw Bitcoin not as an open source project, but as a startup. So he's like, we need to pull ranks and we need to make these features and changes so we can make a payment system that's fast.

SPEAKER_00: Make a roadmap.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, I don't know. It was more like he wanted to operate it like a business.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: And so I was very worried because he wasn't treating it like an open source protocol. It was like, we need to add this thing, we need to add that thing. So I was like, there needs to be some constraint on his wild ideas. So that's why I proposed that system. And the thing is, like... gavin i mean i don't talk about people but anyway yeah so i made that bib system for that reason was i was just afraid of that direction that side of bitcoin yeah which they later made a foundation Yeah. And they put themselves as chief scientist and they tried to do this takeover of business guys on Bitcoin. And they wanted they were like, we have to push out the anarchists. Yeah, it was just like it's like this attitude of like, oh, these crazy anarchists, they've invented this like new play thing. and it's just so it's like really interesting toy and if we can just pry it out of their hands then we can get it accepted by big banks and then it can do something useful whereas our side you're putting people off you're putting people off all this anarchist talk you know we're trying to sell this thing yeah i had so our side was like more like oh this is like an actual new economic paradigm right and you know so it's interesting because uh now all the bitcoin maxis are very bitcoin maxi but i'm for example i'm when i first met peter willer yeah in or sipa one of the core devs of bitcoin in 2011 and i was talking to him in the conference and he says he says Oh, I'm not really interested in the monetary aspect of Bitcoin. Right. I'm more interested just in the scripting language. Okay, right. Because it enables smart contracts and programmability. Yeah. He wasn't interested in the money thing. Right. So this new Bitcoin fanatic ideology is like retroactive. Back then, people in Bitcoin were like, oh, we want to explore.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_02: Like what we can do, you know.

SPEAKER_00: Well, I mean, for the longest time, there was this thought that, you know, all innovation that happens elsewhere will come back to Bitcoin, right? It's inevitable. You know, we don't have to be like pushing anything ourselves because, you know, like it'll just all come home.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, the problem with Bitcoin is that it became taken over by these people that they like going to conferences. Right. It's like, you know, they see people they know, you know, a lot of, you know, culty, massive Bitcoin people, you know, they will want to like, like, oh, I love you. You're amazing. You know, like. And these people, they're not interested in the bigger mission or sense of purpose. It's like it's about themselves. And so Bitcoin got taken over by these like influencers, essentially. Yeah. And the thing is, when somebody come and says, you know, let's do something big, let's rock the boat. They're going to see that as an enemy because that's why Bitcoin is so conservative is because it's been it's been taken over by this class of people.

SPEAKER_00: There was like sailors like absolutely the worst for this. There was a little video of him I saw the other day or yesterday, which was saying the biggest risk to Bitcoin is like competent and enthusiastic devs.

SPEAKER_02: Well, I need to see the full quote, because that sounds ridiculous.

SPEAKER_00: But he basically seems to have gone for this absolute, full-on ossification of saying, you know, these developers, they want to actually change things, and that's a problem. We should never change anything. We need to be thinking in 100-year timelines. because this is the store of value that's going to save humanity. And that's all there is, right? That store of value narrative. And don't use it. Don't use your Bitcoin.

SPEAKER_02: Well, the thing is, there's this book written in the 90s. which is the sovereign individual, I'm not saying I agree with all the book, but it does make interesting analysis. It's definitely worth studying. And it says that Israel in 1997, and it's talking about cryptocurrency, and it's saying how the invention of cryptography will enable the proliferation of markets, like markets in cyberspace, and the capital will become hyperliquid. um you know will be able to flow from any place to any other place and the governments would lose their power right to tax this capital or control this capital yeah and uh therefore it would like inherently change the logic of violence right um and yet and this is also a very big idea in in originally in crypto as well you know early days of bitcoin people would always bring out this up this book uh And yet, it hasn't come to fruition. So, you know, just in case. It hasn't come to fruition, and so we have to ask ourselves why. I don't think the thesis is wrong. I think the thing that they missed was surveillance. Because the surveillance apparatus obviously can monitor all the flows, all the activity of people. And if you can do that, then... then uh you then now you have law enforcement right so uh yeah and you know you pause a sec for sure yeah i just need to listen to this

SPEAKER_00: So, you know, from what I could see, you know, you started traveling around the world a bit, right? You were in various different places at different times. I mean, were you, you know, were you going around meeting different people, like building, you know, building different things? How was that?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, I was traveling a bit. I actually come from a movement of anarchist hackers in Europe, which were living in squatted buildings. Right, right. So, you know, there's like in Europe, there's all these squatters laws, which if a building is like abandoned, you can move into the building. And some some squats, they last for years. Yeah. And we'd get amazing buildings. So in Amsterdam, we had a huge house. Imagine we're working on free software. We're broke devs. It's a really useful lifeline to have. and also like living in the center of the cities. I mean, like now even working in crypto, I look at the price of property and like it's ridiculous. Yeah, it's like really ridiculous. I think like societies really need that kind of stuff, like support people working on projects and software and stuff like that. It's a shame we don't. But anyway, I was part of those hacker movements, so I had, like, lots of places in Europe I could go to. You know, we would have communities, people working on free software, you know, in Barcelona, in London.

SPEAKER_00: London, I saw them. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So when did your focus switch to Dark Wallet?

SPEAKER_02: So actually I made the first CoinJoin and Stealth implementations in Bitcoin, which are the very first privacy techniques. So I was working on Bitcoin implementations nodes, but I was also focused on the privacy. So I already did those projects before.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: And then the Dark Wallet, I was like, we need to create a product. We need to create a wallet or something. Right. So that's why we made the Dark Wallet.

SPEAKER_00: And when did you first meet Vitalik?

SPEAKER_02: Can you remember? Yeah, so I was like, I said I was living in these squats around Europe. So after 2012, then... Then there was like, okay, there was like a friend I met many, many years ago when I was hitchhiking. And he was a really cool dude. And I just saw him randomly on the internet. And I was like, bro, I'm making a conference. Come to my conference. And he's like, okay. And I didn't hear back from him. It turns out he just walked onto a ferry without any documentation. He came from Estonia across Europe. He came into England. And he was like, he now looked like Jesus. But he had like long hair and long beard and stuff. Didn't look good for an entry. Anyway, Mihai met him at the conference. It was like enchanted by him. He was like, I just met this guy, your friend. He looks like Jesus, man. And then I can't remember how it happened, but yeah. So then he was meant to come back with me to my house, but actually he missed the train. And so he ended up just walking into a random building in London. And that was like the building of the Occupy activists. So then I went there. And then Mihai came and we just started living there. And then we started setting up our hack club there. But then also I have friends in Spain that are hackers that also they're making these communities. They also had Calafo. So then they decided to make Calafo, which was eco-industrial.

SPEAKER_00: Near Barcelona, right?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. So I was living with Mihai, I think, for like a year in London.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: And then we went to Calafo in Barcelona. Right. And Mihai co-founded the Bitcoin magazine with Vitalik.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right.

SPEAKER_02: And so then I was also working on the Bitcoin magazine with them.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, I see. Right, right.

SPEAKER_02: you know not I wasn't I didn't write loads of stuff it was mainly those guys writing stuff but like for example I helped Mihai with the graphic design right like some of the covers I helped design right when we were high there you go so then anyway we went to Kalafari and then Vitalik came to live with us Yeah. And so then it was, and then there was like two other Spanish hackers, which are old friends of mine. And we, we were working together on projects.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: So that was when we started dark wallet. Right. I knew Cody from the conference. So I said, it's like, Oh Cody, let's start.

SPEAKER_00: Which conference from the Amsterdam conference, the London one, the one that you, right. Right. And was that the one that you organized?

UNKNOWN: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, I did the 2011 one in Prague.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: And the 2012 one in London as well.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. So, yeah, at the time we were working together in the Hack Lab. Mihaly had his, I think it was Akasha. I'm not sure.

SPEAKER_00: No, I think he did that later.

SPEAKER_02: Oh, no, it was Agora or something.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: Anyway, he was creating like a, I guess what Darkfire is going to be now, like a social network marketplace. Okay. So then he was working on that and my friends were working on that. And Vitalik was working on Bitcoin stuff. I was working on Bitcoin stuff. Right, right. And then he was also working, they were working on the magazine. Yeah. So we were doing a whole bunch of stuff there in Hack Lab. Yeah, right. And then, you know, we co-founded the Dark Wallet.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right. And Peter Todd as well? No, Peter Todd came later.

SPEAKER_02: But you can see the original Dark Wallet announcement video on YouTube. And it has all the co-founders listed. So, yeah, we were working on that. then about and and then The so this so the CIC was a network of 10,000 cooperatives throughout Catalonia Okay, the whole reason that was made is because there's like a big anarchist movement in Catalonia. Yeah, and they You know, they'd been doing their thing for many years. Right. But then they started to mature as anarchists, and they were like, so to think more about economics.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: And organization and stuff. Right. It's something I also like about this Spanish tradition of anarchists. Right. They're a lot more organized than, for example, like London, where it's just like crazy people going, you know, like. Yeah. So they... Yeah, so they were like, okay, we need to make a network of cooperatives. And cooperatives need to provide all the basic things that people need to live. And we would therefore become autonomous from the state. So we'd become our own parallel system, which is cool, cool stuff. And so our team... was actually the cryptocurrency part of that. They were interested in cryptocurrency because, for example, trading inside the network allowed people to avoid paying taxes because they consume from each other. But they also wanted to exchange outside of it. So they were like, oh, we can use cryptocurrency to do that. So we set up the first ATMs in Catalonia for cryptocurrency as part of this cooperative. but they also had a research lab which was a giant factory complex in the Catalan countryside which is it was burnt down and the people came there with a proposal to the owner to buy it from the owner but then also there they had like it's like a village basically it's massive um but they had like a industrial research sector electronics one of them was the hacking stuff which is our club right and that's where we were doing our cryptocurrency stuff right right um but anyway as part of that research of the cic and the tools that the cic needed that's how we came up we came up with these ideas which is the ones maybe you've seen the page it's on archive right on system one it's all about bit law Anyway, I'm not sure. Anyway, there's like a bunch of pages on our old wiki.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: And it's talking about like, oh, what the applications we need to build with Bitcoin. Right. So then that's when Vitalik started to become interested in those ideas.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: Right. So then afterwards he left MasterCoin. First he asked the Bitcoin. He was like, oh, let's loosen the restrictions on the opcodes. And the Bitcoin people were like, no, we're not changing.

SPEAKER_00: no and so then he he went to master coin and then he went to do it he was saying he'd also seen what happened with counterparty right where they were like chopping down the the you know the yeah yeah the uh stuff yeah it's like yeah okay don't want to like build some meta protocol on top of this if it's going to get like they're going to change the mind next month and it's like right you you know your protocol's dead

SPEAKER_02: yeah so um yeah so they then when they were making um ethereum that's you know with anthony delorio and all those people well yeah so i mean also a bit before the first uh dark wallet right right was in Milan.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I was going to mention, so Mihai was in Milan for a fair bit, right?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, we were all together. We would travel together and go to these places. But anyway... Macau's also a really big... Gambling. Huh?

SPEAKER_00: Gambling? Oh, no, in Milan. Oh, I thought you said...

SPEAKER_02: It's a community centre called Macau.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, I see.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, it's huge as well. It used to be a meat processing plant. But anyway, they have loads of cultural things there. But anyway... Yeah, yeah. They let us use it for a month to do our event.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: So that's when Taylor. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: A lot of those early Ethereum guys.

SPEAKER_00: Hive wallet.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. They came there and that's how they all met each other. Right. The early co-founders. Yeah. And then also Richard Stott.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Designer. Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: He was also my friend from London.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, right.

SPEAKER_02: That's how Mihai met him. I see. And Gav Wood also came to visit us in London.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. So Vitalik had shared like a few years ago, shared his first communications with Gav where Gav contacted him on the 19th of December 2013 through about.me and Gav said He said, where are you with Ethereum? I can do C++, basically. And then four days later, he'd created his repo to start working on CPP Ethereum. But the other bit I forgot there is Johnny gave me the heads up. That's what he said, which was Johnny Bitcoin. who he had met through you, right? So Gav came to the squat at some point in London?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. Yeah, we were hanging out because he said he's a KDE developer.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: He's written LIRC.

SPEAKER_00: Right. I think in one of the interviews he said, I'm going to give my KDE email because that will give me cred.

SPEAKER_01: Oh yeah, it did. I was impressed by it. I was like, whoa, he's got a KDE email.

SPEAKER_00: That's impressive. That's right.

SPEAKER_01: That's funny.

SPEAKER_00: It worked. It did. So he came along and then I guess he was talking to Johnny and Johnny must have mentioned Vitalik and Ethereum and pointed him onwards.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, I also went, I visited them in Anthony Delorio's, that's where that hackathon video is. Yeah, so yeah. Is Anthony Delorio a co-founder of Ethereum?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, so... He put money into Ethereum. Yeah, he did.

SPEAKER_02: What happened to that money?

SPEAKER_00: I've heard different things. Well, yeah, he got... So he basically lent money to the project for those early months of development, and he did get paid back out of the crowd sale. There was some court case where it was like, did he get it back as Bitcoin or as fiat? There was some kind of disagreement on that, but that got finished off. But yeah, the timeline was Vitalik did the white paper in about November 2013. He shared it with a bunch of people. I don't know if he shared it with you, if you were on that list of people who got it early.

SPEAKER_02: Oh, right, the BitLaw.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah. Right. So just a whole bunch of different, right. So yeah, transparency, arbitration, auditing and transparency, multi-sigs, yeah, a whole bunch of cryptocurrency 2.0 use cases.

SPEAKER_02: So they did ask me to be the lead Ethereum dev?

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: But I just didn't. I was like, we can build this on Bitcoin.

SPEAKER_00: Right. Right. Why do you need a new thing?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, because I know you can build it on Bitcoin.

SPEAKER_00: Right. But yeah, that December.

SPEAKER_02: And I kept I kept also pressing the guy. Right. To explain to me what it can be used for.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_02: And he just kind of in frustration just went, marriage contracts. Not so appealing.

SPEAKER_00: No, no.

SPEAKER_02: I don't see the point.

SPEAKER_00: But yeah, December.

SPEAKER_02: It's interesting because sometimes you can be too closed-minded about things.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right. But yeah, that December, you know, after he'd shared the white paper around, you know, various people started gathering around.

SPEAKER_02: I think what led to Ethereum's success was having a token. Having the token is like really good because it allows the project to accrue value. Whereas working on Bitcoin, we were always broke.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right, right. Yeah, I mean, those early months, you know, no one was being paid on Ethereum either. And it's like, you know, we will have a token sale. You will get paid back. But, you know, it's, you know, hope and a dream. But yeah, the hackathon that you're talking about was in April of 2014 in Toronto. So Anthony Di Iorio running that, he'd got, you know, Bitcoin Decentral sort of co-working space and... venue there were a bunch of projects running out of there, you know, it's kind of like Yeah, he'd say sort of like businesses running I mean how great businesses they were projects were operating out of there And then one of the things that they did was organize this first Canadian Bitcoin conference To which it's funny so He'd got the space He was the head of the Bitcoin Association of Canada. The Bitcoin Association were running the conference. Ethereum were the main sponsor for the conference. So it was like... his space, his organization, his conference, his sponsors. And somebody said at some point, is this how marketing works, that you've just got all these different hands that are all paying each other? It's like, oh, there's a lot of activity here, but it's all from that same source. But yeah, but there was a hackathon. So he did get cut. I don't know. But yeah, so there was the hackathon that you were at, you and Cody, presenting, you know, dark, well, I guess it was dark market, wasn't it, that you got that one?

SPEAKER_02: Which became Open Bazaar.

SPEAKER_00: Right. And then there was the main conference with, so yes, the aforementioned Peter Todd was there. Andreas Antonopoulos, Dave Johnston. You'd got Adam B. Levine as well. And a bunch of others. But yeah, that conference was also the only conference where there was ever like an Ethereum stall, you know, like the expo area. They were like, hey, you know, we're like, you know, it was like a business, right? It's like here's a business project at that point. Anthony's thought and expectation was like, all of this is going to happen out of Toronto, right? Ethereum is just one of N projects that are happening out of Bitcoin Decentral there. But lots of the projects in that hackathon were on Ethereum as well. But what you were building was not.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, that's why I said it didn't need to be.

SPEAKER_00: No, no.

SPEAKER_02: The thing is, I was quite an expert in Bitcoin, so obviously it's like difficult for people who don't know Bitcoin deeply to do those things. So that's the thing I missed is actually having something with like a language, etc. It's like it's easier for people.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, absolutely. So, I mean, can you remember like what the vibe was like at that conference as compared to other Bitcoin conferences you've been at?

SPEAKER_02: It was a fun conference. It wasn't like an exceptional conference. Yeah, I had a good time. I was just going around chatting to people. Yeah, it was good.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_02: I remember Adam Levine and Stephanie and Andreas.

SPEAKER_00: Right, yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_02: They hung out with each other a lot.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah. So, I mean, I guess, you know, Ethereum kind of, you know, kept ticking along there. Like, was that something, you know, happening in parallel? Or were you still kind of crossing paths with these people through that year?

SPEAKER_02: I didn't interact with Ethereum after that.

SPEAKER_00: No, no. And I mean, in terms of like,

SPEAKER_02: I think all the money started to come in and they all started to go, and then I was in Europe, and then I went to Syria.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, yes. But yeah, I mean, the timeline of that was Ethereum, white paper November, kind of team starting together about December, BTC Miami. Were you at BTC Miami in January? Did you go to that one? No.

SPEAKER_02: I went to the Toronto thing.

SPEAKER_00: Right. So then, yeah, Toronto in April and the crowd sale actually was like July, August-ish of 2014. And then you had the Ethereum Foundation starting to do the crowd sale. And then, yeah, early contributors got paid back for their work in those prior months. And, you know, Ethereum was often live.

SPEAKER_02: We did the dark market just purely for money.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: Because, you know, 15K.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: So that was pretty cool.

SPEAKER_00: And I mean, with Dark Wallet, what kind of time span were you working on that for?

SPEAKER_02: We... I think we started in 2013, and then we were working on it all the way to the end of 2014. Right. And we released an alpha, which the crowdfunding was for the alpha, but we never released the stable.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: And that's mainly because I went to Syria, but I thought the dev team would at least just finish it. Right. They had enough money and everything.

SPEAKER_00: Right. Didn't happen.

SPEAKER_02: they kind of like it just fizzled out without my presence which is like it's a failing of my leadership not to create an organization that doesn't fizzle out when you know one person disappears so

SPEAKER_00: And with Libitcoin, was that ongoing as well as what you were doing?

SPEAKER_02: So Libitcoin had serious technical innovation in there. It has the fastest blockchain database of any Bitcoin node. And this guy, Eric Voskor, who's a really skilled developer, he came and he took on that mission and he's still continuing it. So he's like just really into it. I've tried a few times to poach him to DarkFi, ZK, other stuff. He's a really good developer, but he's just like, no, I just like Bitcoin. I just work on Bitcoin. So he's laser focused on that.

SPEAKER_00: He is. I got to meet him in person for the first time last year, I think. I mean, fair play. After lots of, you know.

SPEAKER_02: Not like me, like advanced, dysregulated focus.

SPEAKER_00: Right. Yeah. Well, I mean, he's just been at that for 10 years.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, it's crazy.

SPEAKER_00: It will be 10 years.

SPEAKER_02: Imagine working on one project.

SPEAKER_00: And, and also, you know, he's like, Yeah, it's not production ready yet.

SPEAKER_02: It's, he's a really good developer. But yeah, he is.

SPEAKER_00: And he's, he's also he's published some stats, you know, the last year or so.

SPEAKER_02: They just need money, really.

SPEAKER_00: I mean, but he's cool with it as well. He's just like, yeah, you know, I'm just working and I'll keep working until it's done. And yeah, I mean, he's got to the point where he's published some stats in the last year or so and, you know, it's just massively better, you know. It's just, yeah, just the whole thing re-thrunk, right, and re-stripped down and built up from that base. Yeah, yeah. So, I mean, early days of Ethereum. What are your thoughts on Ethereum? Like having seen it being birthed, what's Ethereum to you?

SPEAKER_02: It is the closest expression of the Agora as existing crypto now. They've done a lot of really good research. I have like... You know, I think Ethereum needs to develop a political philosophy. The one with Ethereum is it's very ahistorical. Like, if you do science, your, like, evidence is... If you're doing... When you do science, you need evidence to, like, support... your theories, it's like all well and good having models like abstract, like deductive mathematical models, but you need to like backtest your ideas. And when we talk about like social systems, what that is, is history. The thing is with Ethereum, whenever they talk about history, it's always like the most minor or like society, most minor examples are completely inoffensive because they don't want to take a stance on anything. And I don't think you can be like that. I think you have to take go deep into things, take them apart, et cetera. You know, so I think that's really harming them, especially they want to change the world, do things of social benefit. That's why they're making now these kind of network state communities. They're trying to recreate the Califo thing, the Califo experience, where we were developing tools for the CIC, the cooperatives, and that allowed us to see what people need. I respect the intention, but I think the problem is that When you make a project, you don't gather a group of people together and go, what should we do? First, you come up with the idea, you develop the idea, and then you recruit people for roles to fulfill that objective, that mission. They're doing the opposite. They're trying to bring loads of people together and see what happens. I think the reason why Ethereum... has these roadmap diagrams, which are these really arcane plots of stuff. But it's like, what's the organizing idea underneath that? And they don't have one. So anyway.

SPEAKER_00: No, I mean, it's been a criticism I've had for a number of years is you'll see Vitalik, you know, plop out this big roadmap diagram thing. And I remember first looking at it and there were three little boxes in the top corner that were transitioned to proof of stake. Three boxes that took eight years. And you've got 50 odd things on this diagram. And it's like there's decades and decades of work to do all of this. And also, you know the plan's going to change every year anyway. You're never going to get to the end of that. And it's like, yeah, what's feature complete? What are you aiming for? When's good enough?

SPEAKER_02: I also think Ethereum needs to be more product-focused.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_02: I don't mean product-focused by, like, paying lots of useless focus groups or, like, UI designers that used to work at Facebook or something like that. I mean, like, actually going, you know, what is it we want to do and how do we develop the tech to fulfill that objective and, like, aggressively pursue, like, one or two use cases, deliver them and expand that. Like not like Ethereum is like it was it was made in a time when you can launch absolutely anything and it would succeed. And you know, they did really well. But the thing the The thing is, people see what Ethereum did, and they think that's gospel for how to start a new project in crypto. It's like the Ethereum playbook. And I think maybe that's hampering a lot of people. Actually, you know, the Ethereum early on was like, we're like apolitical, we're a neutral technology, you know, blah, blah.

SPEAKER_00: Application platform.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, and I think it just didn't, They need to be more strategic. When you make a project, you have an end goal that you want to get to, you have a strategy, and you have a roadmap, and you have milestones in the roadmap. And I think it's really important that underlying technologies are developed in parallel to applications and the people using them. So when you develop applications and you field them, then you see how the technology needs to evolve. Otherwise, when you give technology to the hands of technologists, and this is what Ethereum has also suffered from.

SPEAKER_00: And it builds stuff that's interesting to them.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, exactly. And again, it becomes arcane. Like, oh, we need this, and we need this, and we need this, and we need this. And it's like, actually, it doesn't even fulfill any of the use cases that well.

SPEAKER_00: No, I mean, it shouldn't be hard, right? It's thinking, okay, well, who are our users and what do they want to do? And let's do that.

SPEAKER_02: It's really difficult to talk to the Ethereum clique core thing. It's very cliquey. So they have a big political problem, I think.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, and I think that sort of almost unbounded scope is problematic. Something Nick Szabo talks about is the idea of argument surface. So he's drawing an analogy with, you know, attack surface for security stuff and is saying On a social level, the argument surface for a system is basically like how much stuff is there that's up for grabs, that's not defined, that you can have a reasonable argument about we should do this, we should do that, we should do the other. And if you have a really well-defined system where it's very clear what this thing is for and what it's meant to do and have we met these needs or not, you don't have all the arguments because you all know what you're building. You don't fuck about like changing the design or plans or anything because you've all got that common goal. So then the criticism there of Ethereum is that there's almost infinite argument surface. It's become like a parliament, right? So you've all got protocol politicians and lobbying groups and you can sit and fucking argue about that for years on end. of like, oh, we should have this feature, that feature, this protocol, this, the other. And a lot of those aren't necessarily actually moving you to something that is actually solving real use case problems that's actually getting people, you know, using the tech. Okay. Well, thanks. Well, thank you very much for your time. Would you like to just say a little bit about Darkfy before we wrap?

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, DarkFies and L1, you can do everything with it, but anonymous. So, you know, you can buy and sell, you can make anonymous styles, do OTC, etc. That's what we need to build the Agora.

SPEAKER_00: I've heard some people say perhaps Monero with smart contracts. Would that be reasonable?

SPEAKER_02: But we're not using Ring 6, we're using ZK.

SPEAKER_00: Zcash with smart contracts.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, well, yeah, maybe, yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Okay, thanks so much.

SPEAKER_02: Thank you.

