SPEAKER_03: Hello, hello. Hello, hello. Great to see you, my friend. So we are here. We are here in Prague, in beautiful Prague, dark Prague, the inaugural Dark Prague Zero Congress, conference, I'm not quite sure what you'd call it. But yeah, delighted to talk to you today, really within a context of this early days of Ethereum project that I've been looking at. And one of the things I remember seeing earliest was the two AMAs that you had, capitalist Amir and anarchist Amir. So tell me, before all that started even, how did your... Just curious, how come you're doing this project? How come I'm doing it? Yeah, yeah, what's the...

SPEAKER_01: Well, it was quite, I mean, it was quite coincidental. I'd gathered a bunch of information back in 2017-2018 basically because Ming Chan was getting hoofed out and I asked Vitalik what I could do to help, you know, anything with help with the transition or whatever. And he said, can you go and talk to people in the community and sort of see what they think the Ethereum Foundation should be like? What should we be doing?

SPEAKER_03: Oh dear, if you ask that question, it's already a bad sign.

SPEAKER_01: Well, my question at that point was, so Ming was terrible. She was one of the least professional people I've ever worked with. She was an absolute nightmare. And my thought was, well, what the hell was happening before that, that she looked like a good choice? And there was a real sort of shroud of mystery as to what had happened then, even though it was only like three or four years before. And so there just was no canonical history. Nobody really knew what happened. Even something as basic as like, was Charles like kind of a co-founder or not? He kind of says he was maybe, but maybe he wasn't. Which is just crazy because he was there doing videos and there's just tons of evidence. But anyway, so I started digging back into that stuff.

SPEAKER_03: What about Anthony Di Iorio as well?

SPEAKER_01: Anthony Di Iorio, yes, that's right. Didn't he get rocked or something? There was Anthony Di Iorio. I don't know the history. There was Anthony D'Onofrio that was Texture. And there was another guy called Anthony Eufemio who did this Digix Gold thing. But anyway, that's where I started getting interested in Ethereum history. It's just like, well, what the hell happened? I mean, what ended up happening is everything I recommended to Vitalik never happened. It was just completely a disaster. Ming went and he just got Aya. Here you go. It's a new one. No changes. Like the what people wanted was transparency. They wanted community input. They wanted professional executive, like operational. It's like, let's have organization to help the devs basically. But primarily it was like don't be a Swiss opaque foundation with no accountability or any public information at all. Anyway, so I put the stuff aside at that point. It's like great, that was a good use of my time, advising the millionaire for free for months. But then just recently, so the guys I now work with, they started recording some videos. So Kieran James-Lubin is Joe's son. So he was actually around from March 2014. And the others were sort of involved from 2015. And they were just like, we should get some of these memories down, right? It was like eight years ago at that point. So they did a couple of those videos and I really loved them and I was making tons of notes and finding links and photos and all of this. And then they interviewed me for the third one. But then more recently, I did interviews with Taylor Gerring and with Texture and just tons of stuff came out of that. And then I just kind of like shoved those together and there you go. That's Early Days of Ethereum is this sort of combination of sort of biographical stuff and photos and videos, links to articles, and then conversations with people. And it's really just because it's like this is history, right?

SPEAKER_03: This stuff was crazy seeing, being in crypto since almost the beginning and seeing the stuff that happens, but seeing what got recorded. Right. And it's like, wow, history really is just written by the victors. Yeah, it's just it's crazy.

SPEAKER_01: So the one thing on that score, which I don't know if you know, is the original Bitcointalk post for announcing Ethereum. So that was done on the 23rd of January 2014, right? Just before the Bitcoin Miami. That page got changed.

SPEAKER_03: Oh.

SPEAKER_01: About eight months later, probably around August, September, it got quick edited. And a whole load of people that were there got written out.

SPEAKER_03: Oh, you mean like just somebody? Well, I mean, I guess you can edit Bitcointalk pages. But what about the people getting deleted and stuff?

SPEAKER_01: So, yeah, just a whole bunch of people got deleted out.

SPEAKER_03: By who, the admins?

SPEAKER_01: Well, by Vitalik, I imagine.

SPEAKER_03: But how do you edit people out of your thread?

SPEAKER_01: No, no. The original post said, hey, we're Ethereum, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. This is the team. This is what we're doing. So that post, which at the start went, look, here's about the 30 people that are working on things, went down to, oh, right, Charles and Amir. Well, Amir, I don't think, was in the original post because he didn't want to be. But Charles got edited out. Stefan and Taylor Gerring got edited in. And all the rest of the team got shoved off the page. Yeah. But many, many people that were involved early, they're just like forgotten. If they were on, if you go back to early Internet Archive versions, you can find some names. So, I mean, some people like Mr. Ryan Taylor over here. So, Ryan worked on all the early websites for months. These pages that thousands or tens of thousands of people have seen as this is the main Ethereum page. Nobody knew who did it. I didn't know. Just on one of the early ones, just for a little while, it just said, like, Ryan Taylor Web. I don't know who Ryan Taylor is. So a number of these names, I don't know who they are or maybe start to find them. And basically, it's like the work of many hands, right? This is something I was talking about is, you've got like great man theory, right? The thought that you have these exceptional people and by amazing powers of intellectual skills and power of force that they bend the universe to their will.

SPEAKER_03: And that's kind of the story that people like. It's kind of like feudalism. It's like you pledge your allegiance to your liege. That's right. And if your liege becomes popular, you will gain through him. You will live vicariously. Right. That's how the tech world operates.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, well, people are looking for heroes and champions to cheer. In the highest case, something like North Korea, they literally think the leader is a god. They're just crying in front of him, just... Wow, that sounds amazing. So, yeah, I'm trying to record the real truth and give people their voices and just make sure stuff doesn't get lost, right? So many things have already been lost, right?

SPEAKER_03: Pete Rizzo did that for Bitcoin. Right. He did really, really deep history of Bitcoin stuff.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, yeah. So...

SPEAKER_03: You should check him out as well.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. So, yeah, I'm finding stuff. And you shared your old YouTube channel with me as well. You seem to have a reasonable number of artifacts of various ages that have been preserved about you.

SPEAKER_03: It's funny because I was just filming and I was just putting my video camera on the internet on YouTube. So that's why I have that page. Right. It's funny.

SPEAKER_01: There's a guy called Freddie Hartline who was one of the guys that started the main kind of like, it was like Bitcoin co-working space or whatever in Vancouver. But he was saying he's got loads of stuff on his Facebook account of all things. Basically, even though it's like as boomer as you can imagine, it's like, yep, loads of other people have had things on so many other platforms and everything. They've all got lost and fucked. I've just posted shit on my Facebook page and it's up there forever. Obviously, preserving things yourself is way better than relying on any of these platforms. But yeah, so much stuff is just like rotted because people have deleted their accounts or a platform isn't around anymore or just general kind of rot. But...

SPEAKER_03: Everything I have that's survived is because I uploaded it to a normie platform. Yes, this is it. I periodically have a cleansing. It's not accidental, but it's just like every few years, your data just resets to zero. Yeah, yeah. I don't know, it sucks, but you know.

SPEAKER_01: Well, that's it. Yeah. I mean, so, yeah, that was Freddie's super normie story is still using Facebook even though it's Facebook. So, yeah, I mean, you were a free software guy and a general developer on that thread and early Bitcoin dev. So, like, how did you find Bitcoin?

SPEAKER_03: So I was working on free software for five, six years. And then I became a professional poker player. Right, right. That was for over two years. And the poker sites, you're playing against other players. Right. But the way the sites operate, the platform, they take a cut out of every pot, basically, every game that you play. Right. But the sites charge a huge amount of fees for a really crappy service. So I had this idea, what if you could have a P2P site, then it wouldn't have rake and fees. Right. So I had the design for it, but then the main issue was the payment system. And so then I was on IRC in this channel with other anarcho-hackers I know. And I was telling them about that. And this guy, he's like a mathematician that worked for the W3C. His name's Melvin. He dumped just like 10 links in there. And they're like random open source projects for money. And there's stuff like LETS. Have you heard of LETS?

SPEAKER_01: No, no.

SPEAKER_03: That was, at one point, people were really into that. But it's like, I think it's like offering your labor, you get a token or something, but anyway. So I was like going through all of these links and they were going, no, no, no, no. I saw Bitcoin, I opened the page for Bitcoin, it goes, Bitcoin is a P2P currency that cannot be controlled by governments or central banks. And I was like, that's garbage. Obviously not. Because there's loads of random projects like that on SourceForge back in the day. I once saw a Jurassic Park video game and it was going, you could do everything. You can punch through the walls, you can hack the terminals, you can hunt the dinosaurs. And I was like, whoa, sounds amazing. And I checked the code and it said main.cpp. And it had just...

SPEAKER_01: One file.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, like it just got bored of it. It just wrote the idea. Right, right. And then I kept checking months every so often. And there was zero progress on that. So I thought Bitcoin was one of those kind of projects. I went, no, no, no, no, no. I was like, oh, they're all shit. So I was like, okay, let's take a deeper look at all of them then. And so then when it came to Bitcoin, I downloaded the source code and I started going through the source code and I was like, oh, that's really interesting. First of all, Bitcoin source code is about 15,000 lines of code at that time. Yeah. Which, 15,000 lines of code, it's actually a small amount of lines of code. Some programmers can even do that in like a week or something, very talented programmers. But so I was like, oh, but it's not nothing either. It's not like that Jurassic Park game I was just describing. So it's like 15,000 lines of code or less. You can read through and kind of understand that pretty well.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_03: So I printed it all out and I covered it all over my floor. Right. It's like my pornography that I'm looking at. I started studying it. Yeah. And it started to make sense. I was like, oh, very interesting. Oh, interesting. And so when I figured out how it worked, I was like, whoa, this is amazing. I'm going to work on this. So what month do you think that was? That was the summer of 2010. Right. So that's when I basically was like, okay, I'm just doing this from now on. And so then I made a plan of, oh, in 10 years we'll be here, et cetera. Right, right. Because this is a long-term thing I'm going to work on. But then that basically just happened really quickly, just started growing massively. So it's pretty crazy. But I started working on Bitcoin, so I'm writing code. I was one of the first five Bitcoin developers which I was listed on bitcoin.org. Right. But that page is gone from the internet so people, it's like maybe, maybe it got archived.

SPEAKER_01: No, I don't think so.

SPEAKER_03: No, just gone. The very first Bitcoin webpage with the list of names. Right. So I had a war with Gavin Andresen. Yep. Because he was like, he's a motherfucker in many ways. But basically, he really likes regulations and the state and stuff like that. He's a statist. And he's into the banks and stuff. But also, he was just not that good a dev. And when there was other young devs that were coming up, instead of trying to nurture them, he was instead trying to push them out and try and keep control. So I became his main enemy, basically. I was like his first enemy.

SPEAKER_01: And then he kind of seemed like he never wanted the role. Even he just sort of got kind of locked into it.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. And then he was there and he's like, oh, I want to keep it. I really like it. So, yeah, I went to the very first event presenting Bitcoin to the audience of bankers. And so I did my talking. Afterwards, Gavin Andresen, he DM'd me and he goes, I think you should not talk at conferences ever again. I was like, who the fuck is this guy? You're not in charge of project. Fuck you.

SPEAKER_01: But was this in London or in the US?

SPEAKER_03: Amsterdam. Amsterdam. Yeah. But anyway, so. Right. So he was like that. And...

SPEAKER_01: I mean, did you end up starting Libbitcoin quite early then?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, 2011, yeah. Like March 2011 or something.

SPEAKER_01: And was that around the same time as BIPs? Was that kind of like you were coordinating that? It's kind of like, right, we need specs, we need multiple clients.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, because Gavin saw Bitcoin not as an open source project, but as a startup. Right. So he's like, we need to pull ranks and we need to make these features and changes so we can make a payment system that's fast.

SPEAKER_01: Make a roadmap.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, I don't know. It was more like he wanted to operate it like a business. Right. And so I was very worried because he wasn't treating it like an open source protocol. It was like, we need to add this thing, we need to add that thing. So I was like, there needs to be some constraint on his wild ideas. So that's why I proposed that system. And the thing is, like... Gavin, I mean, I don't talk shit about people, but anyway. Yeah. So I made the system for that reason. I was just afraid of that direction, that side of Bitcoin, which they later made a foundation. Yeah. And they put themselves as chief scientist and they tried to do this. It was a takeover of business guys on Bitcoin. And they were like, we have to push out the anarchists. Yeah. It was just this attitude of, oh, these crazy anarchists, they've invented this new plaything. And it's so, it's really interesting toy. And if we can just pry it out of their hands, then we can get it accepted by big banks and then it can do something useful. Whereas our side...

SPEAKER_01: You're putting people off. Huh? You're putting people off all this anarchist talk. We're trying to sell this thing.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. So our side was more like, oh, this is an actual new economic paradigm. Right. And, it's interesting because now all the Bitcoin maxis are very Bitcoin maxi. But for example, when I first met Pieter Wuille and Sipa, one of the core devs of Bitcoin in 2011, I was talking to him at a conference and he says, he says, oh, I'm not really interested in the monetary aspect of Bitcoin. Right. I'm more interested just in the scripting language.

SPEAKER_01: Okay, right.

SPEAKER_03: Because it enables smart contracts and programmability.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_03: He wasn't interested in the money thing. Right. So this new Bitcoin fanatic ideology is retroactive. Back then, people in Bitcoin were like, oh, we want to explore. Yeah, yeah, yeah. What we can do.

SPEAKER_01: Well, I mean, for the longest time, there was this thought that all innovation that happens elsewhere will come back to Bitcoin, right? It's inevitable. We don't have to be pushing anything ourselves because it'll just all come home.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, the problem with Bitcoin is that it became taken over by these people that like going to conferences. Right. It's like, they see people they know, a lot of culty, massive Bitcoin people. They will want to, like, oh, I love you. You're amazing. And these people they're not interested in the bigger mission or sense. It's about themselves. And so Bitcoin got taken over by these influencers essentially. Yeah. And the thing is when somebody comes and says let's do something big, let's rock the boat. Yeah. They're going to see that as an enemy because... And that's why Bitcoin is so conservative. It's because it's been taken over by this class of people.

SPEAKER_01: There was like Saylor, like absolutely the worst for this. There was a little video of him I saw the other day or yesterday, which was saying the biggest risk to Bitcoin is like competent and enthusiastic devs.

SPEAKER_03: Well, I need to see the full quote, because that sounds ridiculous.

SPEAKER_01: But he basically seems to have gone for this absolute, full-on ossification of saying, these developers, they want to actually change things, and that's a problem. We should never change anything. We need to be thinking in 100-year timelines because this is the store of value that's going to save humanity. And that's all there is, right? That store of value narrative. And don't use it. Don't use your Bitcoin.

SPEAKER_03: Well, the thing is, there's this book written in the 90s...

SPEAKER_01: Which is The Sovereign Individual. I'm not saying I agree with all the book, but it does make interesting analysis. It's definitely worth studying. And it says that, Israel in 1997, and it's talking about cryptocurrency, and it's saying how the invention of cryptography will enable the proliferation of markets, like markets in cyberspace, and the capital will become hyperliquid and will be able to flow from any place to any other place. And the governments would lose their power to tax this capital or control this capital. And therefore, it would inherently change the logic of violence. And this is also a very big idea originally in crypto as well. Early days of Bitcoin, people would always bring up this book.

SPEAKER_03: And yet, it hasn't come to fruition.

SPEAKER_01: So, it hasn't come to fruition, and so we have to ask ourselves why. I don't think the thesis is wrong. I just think the thing that they missed was surveillance. Because the surveillance apparatus obviously can monitor all the flows or the activity of people and if you can do that then you have law enforcement. Right. So... Yeah. You pause a sec for sure. I just need to listen to this.

SPEAKER_03: So, from what I could see, you started traveling around the world a bit, right? You were in various different places at different times. I mean, were you going around meeting different people, building different things? How was that?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I was traveling a bit. I actually come from a movement of anarchist hackers in Europe, which were living in squatted buildings. Right, right. So, there's like in Europe, there's all these squatter's laws, which if a building is abandoned, you can move into the building. And some squats, they last for years. Yeah. And we'd get amazing buildings. So in Amsterdam, we had a huge house. Imagine we're working on free software. We're broke devs. It's a really useful lifeline to have. And also living in the center of the cities. I mean now and even working in crypto I look at the price of property and it's ridiculous. Yeah. It's really ridiculous. I think societies really need that kind of stuff like support for people working on projects and software and stuff like that. It's a shame we don't. But anyway, I was part of those hacker movements, so I had lots of places in Europe I could go to. We would have communities, people working on free software in Barcelona, in London, in different places.

SPEAKER_03: London, I saw them.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_03: So when did your focus switch to Dark Wallet?

SPEAKER_01: So actually I made the first CoinJoin and Stealth implementations in Bitcoin, which are the very first privacy techniques. And so I was working on Bitcoin implementations, nodes, but I was also focused on the privacy. So I already did those projects before. Right. And then the Dark Wallet, I was like, we need to create a product. We need to create a wallet or something. Right. So that's why we made the Dark Wallet.

SPEAKER_03: And when did you first meet Vitalik? Can you remember?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. So I was like, I said I was living in these squats around Europe. Yeah. So after 2012, then... Then there was like, okay, there was a friend I met many, many years ago when I was hitchhiking. And he was a really cool dude. And I just saw him randomly on the internet. And I was like, bro, I'm making a conference. Come to my conference. He's like, okay. And I didn't hear back from him. It turns out he walked onto a ferry without any documentation. He came from Estonia across Europe. He came into England. And he was like, he now looked like Jesus. But he had long hair and long beard and stuff.

SPEAKER_03: Didn't look good for an entry.

SPEAKER_01: Anyway, Mihai met him at the conference. It was like enchanted by him. He was like, I just met this guy, your friend. He looks like Jesus, man. And then I can't remember how it happened, but yeah. So then he was meant to come back with me to my house actually. He missed the train. Okay. And so he ended up just walking into around the building in London and that was like the building of the Occupy activists. Right. Then I went there and then Mihai came and we just started living there and then we started setting up our hacker club right there. But then also I have friends in Spain that are hackers that also they're making these communities. They also had Calafou. So then they decided to make Calafou, which was eco-industrial.

SPEAKER_03: Near Barcelona, right?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. So I was living with Mihai, I think, for like a year in London. Right. And then we went to Calafou in Barcelona. Right. And Mihai co-founded the Bitcoin Magazine with Vitalik. Right, right. And so then I was also working on the Bitcoin Magazine with them.

SPEAKER_03: Oh, I see. Right, right.

SPEAKER_01: Not, I didn't write loads of stuff. It was mainly those guys writing stuff. But for example I helped Mihai with the graphic design. Right. Some of the covers I helped design with. Right.

SPEAKER_03: When we were high there you go.

SPEAKER_01: So then, anyway, we went to Calafou and then Vitalik came to live with us. Yeah. And so then it was, and then there was two other Spanish hackers, which are old friends of mine. And we were working together on projects. Yeah.

SPEAKER_03: So that was when we started Dark Wallet. Right.

SPEAKER_01: And I knew Cody from the conference. So I says, oh, Cody, let's start this Dark Wallet.

SPEAKER_03: Which conference, from the Amsterdam conference, the London one, the one that you... Right. Right. And was that the one that you organized?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I did the 2011 one in Prague. Right. And the 2012 one in London as well. Right, right. Yeah. So, yeah, at the time we were working together in the hacker lab. Mihai had his, I think it was Akasha. I'm not sure.

SPEAKER_03: No, I think he did that later.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, no, it was Agora or something. Right. Anyway, he was creating, I guess, what DarkFi is going to be now, like a social network marketplace.

SPEAKER_03: Okay, okay.

SPEAKER_01: So then he was working on that, and my friends were working on that. And Vitalik was working on Bitcoin stuff. I was working on Bitcoin stuff. Right, right. And then he was also working, they were working on the magazine.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. So we were doing a whole bunch of stuff there in the hacker lab.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, right. And then... So the CIC was a network of 10,000 cooperatives throughout Catalonia.

SPEAKER_03: Okay.

SPEAKER_01: And the whole reason that was made is because there's a big anarchist movement in Catalonia. Yeah, yeah. And they'd been doing their thing for many years. Right. But then they started to mature as anarchists, and they were like, so to think more about economics. Right. And organization and stuff. Right. It's something I also like about this Spanish tradition of anarchists. Right. They're a lot more organized than, for example, London, where it's just crazy people going...

SPEAKER_03: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: So they were like, okay, we need to make a network of cooperatives. And cooperatives need to provide all the basic things that people need to live. And we would therefore become autonomous from the state. So we'd become our own parallel system, which is cool, cool stuff. And so our team was actually the cryptocurrency part of that. They were interested in cryptocurrency because, for example, trading inside the network allowed people to avoid paying taxes because they consume from each other. But they also wanted to exchange outside of it. So they were like, oh, we can use cryptocurrency to do that. So we set up the first ATMs in Catalonia for cryptocurrency as part of this cooperative. But they also had a research lab, which was a giant factory complex in the Catalan countryside, which is, it was burnt down and the people came there with a proposal to the owner to buy it from the owner. But then also there they had like, it's like a village basically, it's massive. Right. But they had an industrial research sector, electronics, one of them was the hacking stuff which is our club. Right. And that's where we were doing our cryptocurrency stuff. Right, right. But anyway, as part of that research of the CIC and the tools that the CIC needed, that's how we came up with these ideas which is the ones maybe you've seen the page, it's on archive. Right.

SPEAKER_03: On system one talking about BitLaw.

SPEAKER_01: Anyway, I'm not sure. Anyway, there's a bunch of pages on our old wiki. Right. And it's talking about what the applications we need to build with Bitcoin. Right. So then that's when Vitalik started to become interested in those ideas. Right. Right. So then afterwards he left Mastercoin. Yeah. First he asked the Bitcoin. He was like, oh, let's loosen the restrictions on the opcodes. And the Bitcoin people were like, no, we're not changing anything.

SPEAKER_03: And so then he went to Mastercoin and then he went to do Ethereum. He was saying he'd also seen what happened with Counterparty, right, where they were like chopping down the OP_RETURN stuff.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, it's like, okay, don't want to build some meta protocol on top of this if they're going to change the mind next month and it's like, right, your protocol's dead.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, so they... Then when they were making Ethereum, that's with Anthony Di Iorio and all those people.

SPEAKER_01: Well, yeah, so I mean... Oh, yeah, I forgot also a bit before.

SPEAKER_03: Uh-huh.

SPEAKER_01: The first Dark Wallet hackathon...

SPEAKER_03: Right, right.

SPEAKER_01: Was in Milan.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, I was going to mention, so Mihai was in Milan for a fair bit, right?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, we were all together. We would travel together and go to these places. But anyway... Macao's also a really big...

SPEAKER_03: Gambling.

SPEAKER_01: Huh?

SPEAKER_03: Gambling?

SPEAKER_01: Oh, no, in Milan.

SPEAKER_03: Oh, I thought you said...

SPEAKER_01: It's a community centre called Macao.

SPEAKER_03: Oh, I see.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, it's huge as well. It used to be a meat processing plant. But anyway, they have loads of cultural things there. But anyway... Yeah, yeah. They let us use it for a month to do our event. Right. So that's when Taylor.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. Right.

SPEAKER_01: A lot of those early Ethereum guys. Right. Hive Wallet.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: They came there and that's how they all met each other. Right. The early co-founders.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: And then also Richard Stott. Yeah. Designer.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. He was also my friend from London.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, right.

SPEAKER_03: That's how Mihai met him.

SPEAKER_01: I see. And Gav Wood also came to visit us in London.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. So Vitalik had shared, a few years ago, shared his first communications with Gav, where Gav contacted him on the 19th of December 2013 through about.me. And Gav said, he said, where are you with Ethereum? I can do C++, basically. And then four days later, he'd created his repo to start working on CPP Ethereum. But the other bit I forgot there is Johnny gave me the heads up. That's what he said, which was Johnny Bitcoin. Who he had met through you, right? So Gav came to the squat at some point in London?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Yeah, we were hanging out because he said he's a KDE developer. Right. He's written LIRC. Right. I think in one of the interviews he said, I'm going to give my KDE email because that will give me cred.

SPEAKER_03: Oh yeah, it did. I was impressed by it. I was like, whoa, he's got a KDE email. That's impressive.

SPEAKER_01: That's right. That's funny. It worked. It did.

SPEAKER_03: So he came along and then I guess he was talking to Johnny and Johnny must have mentioned Vitalik and Ethereum and pointed him onwards.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I also when I visit them in Anthony Di Iorio's. That's where the hackathon.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah. So. So, yes.

SPEAKER_01: Is Anthony Di Iorio a co-founder of Ethereum?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: So money into Ethereum.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, he did. What happened to that money? I've heard different things.

SPEAKER_01: Well, yeah, he got...

SPEAKER_03: So he basically lent money to the project for those early months of development, and he did get paid back out of the crowd sale. There was some court case where it was like, did he get it back as Bitcoin or as fiat? There was some kind of disagreement on that, but that got finished off. But yeah, the timeline was... Vitalik did the white paper in about November 2013. He shared it with a bunch of people. I don't know if he shared it with you, if you were on that list of people who got it early.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, right, the BitLaw. Yeah, yeah. Right. So just a whole bunch of different, right. So yeah, transparency, arbitration, auditing and transparency, multi-sigs, yeah, a whole bunch of cryptocurrency 2.0 use cases.

SPEAKER_03: So they did ask me to be the lead Ethereum dev?

SPEAKER_01: Right. But I just didn't... I was like, we can build this on Bitcoin. Right, right. Why do you need a new thing?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, I didn't... Because I know you can build it on Bitcoin at the time.

SPEAKER_01: But yeah, that December... And I kept also pressing the guy... Right. To explain to me what it can be used for. Yeah. And he just kind of in frustration just went, marriage contracts.

SPEAKER_03: Not so appealing. No, no. I don't see the point.

SPEAKER_01: But yeah, December. It's interesting because sometimes you can be too closed minded about things. Right, right.

SPEAKER_03: But yeah, that December, after he'd shared the white paper around, various people started gathering around. I think what led to Ethereum's success was having a token. Having the token is really good because it allows the project to accrue value. Whereas working on Bitcoin, we were always broke.

SPEAKER_01: Right, right, right.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, I mean, those early months, no one was being paid on Ethereum either, and it's like, we will have a token sale, you will get paid back, but it's hope and a dream. But yeah, the hackathon that you're talking about was in April of 2014 in Toronto. So Anthony Di Iorio running that, he'd got Bitcoin Decentral sort of co-working space and venue. There were a bunch of projects running out of there. It's kind of like... Yeah, he'd say sort of like businesses running. I mean how great businesses they were, projects were operating out of there. And then one of the things that they did was organize this first Canadian Bitcoin conference. To which it's funny, so he'd got the space. He was the head of the Bitcoin Association of Canada. The Bitcoin Association were running the conference. Ethereum were the main sponsor for the conference. So it was like his space, his organization, his conference, his sponsors. And somebody said at some point, is this how marketing works? That you've just got all these different hands that are all paying each other? It's like, oh, there's a lot of activity here, but it's all from that same source. But yeah, there was a hackathon. So he did get cut. I don't know. But yeah, so there was the hackathon that you were at, you and Cody, presenting, well, I guess it was Dark Market, wasn't it, that you got that one?

SPEAKER_01: Which became OpenBazaar. Right.

SPEAKER_03: And then there was the main conference with, so yes, the aforementioned Peter Todd was there. Andreas Antonopoulos, Dave Johnston. You'd got Adam B. Levine as well. And a bunch of others. But yeah, that conference was also the only conference where there was ever like an Ethereum stall, in the expo area. They were like, hey, we're like, it was like a business, right? It's like here's a business project at that point. Anthony's thought and expectation was like, all of this is going to happen out of Toronto, right? Ethereum is just one of N projects that are happening out of Bitcoin Decentral there. But lots of the projects in that hackathon were on Ethereum as well. But what you were building was not.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, that's what I said. Didn't need to be.

SPEAKER_03: No, no.

SPEAKER_01: The thing is, I was quite an expert in Bitcoin. So obviously it's difficult for people who don't know Bitcoin deeply to do those things. So that's the thing I missed is actually having something with a language, etc. It's easier for people.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, absolutely. So, I mean, can you remember what the vibe was like at that conference as compared to other Bitcoin conferences you've been at?

SPEAKER_01: It was a fun conference. It wasn't an exceptional conference. Yeah, I had a good time. I was just going around chatting to people. Yeah, it was good.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_01: I remember Adam Levine and Stephanie and Andreas. Right, yeah, yeah. They hung out with each other a lot.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_01: So, I mean, I guess, early days of Ethereum. What are your thoughts on Ethereum? Having seen it being birthed, what's Ethereum to you?

SPEAKER_03: It is the closest expression of the Agora as existing crypto now. They've done a lot of really good research. I have like... I think Ethereum needs to develop a political philosophy. The one with Ethereum is it's very ahistorical. Like if you do science, your evidence is, if you're doing, when you do science, you need evidence to support your theories. It's all well and good having models, abstract, deductive mathematical models, but you need to backtest your ideas. And when we talk about social systems, what that is, is history. The thing is with Ethereum, whenever they talk about history, it's always the most minor or society, most minor examples are completely inoffensive because they don't want to take a stance on anything. And I don't think you can be like that. I think you have to go deep into things, take them apart, etc. So I think that's really harming them, especially they want to change the world, do things of social benefit. That's why they're making now these Zuzalu, these kind of network state communities. Yeah. They're trying to recreate the Calafou thing, the Calafou experience. Yeah. Where we were developing tools for the CIC, the cooperatives that allowed us to see what people need. So I respect the intention. But I think the problem is, is that when you make a project, you don't gather a group of people together and go, what should we do? You first come up with the idea, you develop the idea, and then you recruit people for roles to fulfill that objective, that mission. So they're doing the opposite. They're trying to bring loads of people together and see what happens. And I think that's the reason why Ethereum has these roadmap diagrams, which are these really arcane plots of stuff. But it's like, what's the organizing idea underneath that? And they don't have one. So anyway.

SPEAKER_01: No, I mean, it's been a criticism I've had for a number of years. You'll see Vitalik plop out this big roadmap diagram thing. And I remember first looking at it and there were three little boxes in the top corner that were transitioned to proof of stake. Three boxes that took eight years. And you've got 50 odd things on this diagram. And it's like there's decades and decades of work to do all of this. And also, the plan's gonna change every year anyway. You're never gonna get to the end of that, and it's like, yeah, what's feature complete? What are you aiming for? When's good enough?

SPEAKER_03: I also think Ethereum needs to be more product-focused. Right. I don't mean product-focused by paying lots of useless focus groups or UI designers that used to work at Facebook or something like that. I mean actually going, what is it we want to do and how do we develop the tech to fulfill that objective and aggressively pursue one or two use cases, deliver them and expand that. Not, Ethereum is like it was made in a time when you can launch absolutely anything and it would succeed. And they did really well. But the thing is, people see what Ethereum did, and they think that's gospel for how to start a new project in crypto. It's like the Ethereum playbook. And I think maybe that's hampering a lot of people. Actually, the Ethereum early on was like we're apolitical, we're a neutral technology, blah blah, application platform. Yeah. And I think it just, they need to be more strategic. Like when you make a project, you have an end goal that you want to get to, you have a strategy, and you have a roadmap, and you have milestones in the roadmap. And I think it's really important that underlying technologies are developed in parallel to applications and the people using them. So when you develop applications and you field them, then you see how the technology needs to evolve. Otherwise, when you give technology to the hands of technologists, and this is what Ethereum has also suffered from...

SPEAKER_01: And it builds stuff that is interesting to them.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, exactly. And again, it becomes arcane. Like, oh, we need this, and we need this, and we need this, and we need this. And it's like, actually, it doesn't even fulfill any of the use cases that well.

SPEAKER_01: No, I mean, it shouldn't be hard, right? It's thinking, okay, well, who are our users and what do they want to do? And let's do that.

SPEAKER_03: It's really difficult to talk to the Ethereum clique core thing. It's very cliquey. So they have a big political problem, I think.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, and I think that sort of almost unbounded scope is problematic. Something Nick Szabo talks about is the idea of argument surface. So he's drawing an analogy with attack surface for security stuff, and is saying on a social level, the argument surface for a system is basically how much stuff is there that's up for grabs, that's not defined, that you can have a reasonable argument about we should do this, we should do that, we should do the other. And if you have a really well-defined system where it's very clear what this thing is for and what it's meant to do and have we met these needs or not, you don't have all the arguments because you all know what you're building. You don't fuck about changing the design or plans or anything because you've all got that common goal. So then the criticism there of Ethereum is that there's almost infinite argument surface. It's become like a parliament, right? So you've got all these protocol politicians and lobbying groups and you can sit and fucking argue about that for years on end of like, oh, we should have this feature, that feature, this protocol, this, the other. And a lot of those aren't necessarily actually moving you to something that is actually solving real use case problems that's actually getting people using the tech.

SPEAKER_03: Okay. Well, thanks. Well, thank you very much for your time. Would you like to just say a little bit about DarkFi before we wrap?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, DarkFi is an L1, you can do everything with it, but anonymous. So, you can buy and sell, you can make anonymous DAOs, do OTC, etc. That's what we need to build the Agora. Yeah.

SPEAKER_03: I've heard some people say perhaps Monero with smart contracts. Would that be reasonable?

SPEAKER_01: But we're not using ring signatures, we're using ZK.

SPEAKER_03: Zcash with smart contracts.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, well, yeah, maybe, yeah.

SPEAKER_03: Okay, thanks so much.

SPEAKER_01: Thank you.