SPEAKER_00: So hello, I am Bob Summerwell and this is Early Days of Ethereum with my good friend Victor Tron. So hi Victor, how are you?

SPEAKER_01: Very, very well, thank you. Hello Bob. Thank you for inviting me to the show. It's wonderful to reminisce.

SPEAKER_00: Well, great to have you here. So. So yeah, we, we bumped into each other in Buenos Aires for DevConnect and had hoped to record there but for one reason or another that never happened. So good to connect you online instead. So talking about early days of Ethereum, you were very early in Ethereum. So I mean what were you doing in your life prior to that that led you to the project.

SPEAKER_01: Work wise? I was not exactly, I wouldn't say I was exactly. Very close to the, close to the crypto scene to be honest. I was working on a project with BBC News Labs News Juicer project. He was trying to kind of ingest a lot of new sources like from old photo archives, video archives and everything and kind of use it like basically work through the speech recognition and everything and categorized it and made it searchable in a very nice way. I mean of course it's one of the, one of these kind of BBC sponsored projects no one really needed and it was never really used but, but it was, it was a nice project to work on and anyway, so I kind of left. Left the job.

SPEAKER_00: At that time you were in London, you were living in London?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I was in London. I was living in London and I left the job because, because I found Ethereum. I was very excited right away. So when, I guess it was when Gavin visited this kind of web new web meetup some sort, I think it was a new web meetup and then presented Ethereum, I was absolutely taken back and I found it was amazing and game changer. And I mean what led me to it to be honest was I was already quite bit into bitcoin which kind of interesting because bitcoin came into my life through a friend who I knew from an anarchist club or like Facebook group basically. So it's kind of. He introduced me to it on ideological grounds but of course I was very interested in tech as well, so. But it took me quite a while to understand what is blockchain, how all these things come together. But by that time I was kind of solid in understanding of the blockchain and my manager was solid enough so that I could. I was question Gavin and Vitalik and that it's absolutely not going to work obviously because of this haunting problem. And you know, and bit by bit when I Understood that they all had answers to every question that I can ever think of. Then that's what I got to admit that they are probably the geniuses I really, I really want to look up to and have in my environment to learn from. It was very, very, very great start. And so when Gavin presented the Ethereum I was. Next day I was already hacking on the C code base actually and my first PR in. We kind of met in a cafe in Dalston I think. And I remember those were quite impressive that I learned that having used Mac but actually was running it and Lux us on it. That was very impressive.

SPEAKER_00: And so you know, you mentioned your anarchist group there. So had Bitcoin earlier been interesting to you from that kind of monetary, you know, anarchist, libertarian.

SPEAKER_01: I mean when Bitcoin came, this was the time when I even kind of learned what money was really. I mean before I didn't even, didn't even grasp this notion. And it was very important times in my life. It was really a game changer to kind of have a framework in which I can totally identify myself with. Yeah, I don't know if it's the right word, but freedom seeking individual and I really like this kind of Austrian view of economy and have understood what, what how money was. Was used and what inflation was never really understood before. That was okay, I came late to the game, let's say, let's say that. But yeah, and then, and then it was all very. It was a history after.

SPEAKER_00: And. And the, the next web meeting that you mentioned was that like a recurring meetup that you were going to or were you regularly going to kind of, you know, web meet up?

SPEAKER_01: Yes, but, yes, but this, this one particularly sort out because I saw Vitalik's presentation I think in Miami and so that really got me interested. So I knew what I was in for when I showed up on that meeting in Houston Square. I think it was that meeting.

SPEAKER_00: Sorry, you said Vitalik's presentation, was that the one that he'd given in Miami?

SPEAKER_01: Yes, exactly. And there was a. So kind of. I knew already what I expect from it, but of course I never really understood and Gavin helped me quite a bit to, to understand it. So it was really great.

SPEAKER_00: Had you. Were you watching a variety of, of like bitcoin conference talks? Was that a sort of a regular thing that you were doing at that point? Watching.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, watching YouTube? Yes, and I was very, very interested and very much into, into these things. I mean, you know, I was hoping that you know, change changes related to this kind of technologies we Come a lot earlier. Was already kind of sort of the hype a bit or contributed to it myself in a way and.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, had you. Had you been sort of following along with things like Master Coin and Colored Coins and other sort of Bitcoin 2.0 projects?

SPEAKER_01: Yes, actually I did. Yeah. It was kind of a. I think it was Bears at the Point. Point.

SPEAKER_00: I'm sorry.

SPEAKER_01: And there was bit shares, I think.

SPEAKER_00: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_01: And there was this kind of. And then open transactions which very close to kind of Gavin's heart, I think. Worked with work together and Yeah, I don't know what came out on that afternoon, but. Interesting. And then so after I left the BCC and ready that winter which I spent in Thailand, half in the retreat and then in my spare time I was working on the yellow paper and worked my way through the really hard notation that Gavin getting put on paper.

SPEAKER_00: Yes. A lot of people struggled with that sort of math heavy notation and, and, and so you. So you went to Gav's presentation which was. Would have been very early February. So I mean that was only like a week or so after Vitalik's presentation in Miami. It would have been very, very close.

SPEAKER_01: Correct.

SPEAKER_00: So you spoke to Gav there and then you exchanged emails, did you?

SPEAKER_01: Yes, basically we changed emails. Changed emails. He put me on Skype group. There was a Skype group at the time, I think it was 20 odd people on it. Really not a big crowd and yeah, that's how it all started. So very nice in the beginning too. This kind of grandiose ideas and chat and be part of it. I'm super proud and very happy that I managed to be at the end, at the forefront of it. Many or anyone. It's kind of a lucky move to be honest.

SPEAKER_00: So was it a fair bit later in that year that you started working with. With Danny on Swarm? Were you doing.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Then. Then it came a little bit later. So. So yes, first of all, first of all in the spring started working on the yellow paper and then a bit on the. Yeah, as I said, bit on the C. Not a lot. And then I think it was in March or sometime that. That I was a. I showed up on the first Ethereum meetup. Maybe not the first. I think you told me it was not the first but the second one in London.

SPEAKER_00: This is.

SPEAKER_01: Yes, yes, yes, yes.

SPEAKER_00: So this was organized by Stefan Tual.

SPEAKER_01: There was a. There was a Mihai there who later kind of I think. And then.

SPEAKER_00: Sorry, Mihai Mihaly. Was that right?

SPEAKER_01: Yes, yes. And And I think who I talked to quite a lot was Jack De Rose, who then.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, of Colony.

SPEAKER_01: Colony fame. Exactly. So. And then, and then there, there is when I met Jeff first. So Jeff became my boss later.

SPEAKER_00: He came to London for that meetup.

SPEAKER_01: Yes, yes, he did.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: And that's why I kind of saw that it's, it's quite an international crowd and from all over the world kind of doing this thing. So I kind of started to take it very seriously. As I said, I kind of left my job and enjoyed the ranks and I kind of started contributing to the Go code. And so after that I kind of. I was really into the Golang. That's where I contributed most and become part of the Goetheum team after. After Jeff offered me the job around. It was September, October that year when the foundation was already actively paying out some salaries or like recruiting people on the teams.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, so I mean I was looking at the timing on that. So the Ethereum foundation was founded in July of 2014 and then the crowd sale was going through July, August, September. And then, yeah, the, the hiring, that first wave of we've actually got some money to hire people was, was sort of, you know, September, September, October, October.

SPEAKER_01: In October again, if I was negotiating it. Aaron Buchanan, I remember right, right. My contact then. And then I don't know when the Amsterdam office in Wurstraat was actually funded, but I already visited Jeff, I think later in that year there. So. And then. So when I first kind of joined, I was talking to my semi with my friends in Hungary. Some of them related to this Facebook group and among them like Dani Feffend. And there was another person who's like very close to swab later but never actually entered the scene officially. Let's let him be unnamed. And so there was some thinking that maybe the four of us kind of can form a group and we can just join as a kind of sub dev team or something. They all feel, I mean, it never happened. So we work at times just higher. Tired of individually. And then. And then. So yes, around that later that year, there was the Defcon zero. Is that correct?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, yeah. I mean if we just, just pop back a little bit. So could you. Could you. So through 2014, you know, prior to, you know, the sale and so on, I mean, so how were things working early in 2014? I mean, you mentioned a Skype group. Were most people kind of working through Skype?

SPEAKER_01: Yes, yes, yes, it was really mainly, Mainly everything was done by basically by Gavin, Jeff and Vitalik. The rest of Us were just sharpers on the way at that time and then kind of just you know, just tapping up. I mean I'm talking about the technical stuff. I'm really not sure about the admin and the foundation stuff so hope no offense is taken from anyone but yeah for the tech stuff it's. Yeah. So I think it was actually in July that Jeff shared a kind of boy theme to do with me and introduced me into the intricacies of the then aspiring deaf peer to peer protocol. And so I think I was. That was my first project. I think that was really kind of in the code base that was then the latest scraped and. And completely reared them by Felix and the other guys. But that was my first attempt. I think that to be a networking layer at the time was kind of trying to say really crazy ideas to Jeff about some developer tooling some like you know, contract verification kind of like staging and like fake blockchain environment and stuff. And he was adamant that there other things to do and he was focusing on like maybe the end user end user applications like the. At the time was the East Eco. I think I was under Esco but actually later the Mist browser basically right. It was a browser and so he was kind of trying to talk me out of it and said that the other group the C team is assigned to that anyway so let me not thread unwanted paths. And so he kind of brought me back to.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, well I mean he had Aleph. You had Alice zero, right? Alice Zero I guess was an earlier kind of incarnation of that.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, that's good. And then. But there was some. Some kind of not so not so glorious tasks as well that I refactor logging and things like this. I remember in the early days but there was also a time when I was. I was kind of learning. Learning Warland because there was also not the super popular language I think a lot of learning to do and yeah.

SPEAKER_00: I mean it was relatively new at that point. Go. So you'd mentioned the yellow paper. So in those very early months of 2014 Gav in particular seemed to be like incredibly productive in terms of what he was getting through with the C client and that yellow paper Beck, I mean was it usually the code that was leading and then the yellow paper was being kind of modeled after that.

SPEAKER_01: It's hard for me to say if they really were that kind of hand in hand developing. I think I can't really take. Maybe it's better as him to be honest but. But yes the productivity and then. And actually the speed that he Was churning at Cuda. Absolutely stunning. So it's like already a few months after some of these clients already worked. But yeah, to be honest, I mean Jeff was the same and Jeff was also incredible in his productivity. These people were really, really nice example in front of Ruth. So it was really happy to learn from them in a way. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: And I mean I think that that triangulation was so important right of having multiple clients and the spec and you had the Python client though not really to that production status but you know those, those three groups all, you know.

SPEAKER_01: Who'S the new glorious statement that Ethereum always was very proud of that like this multi client development was leading to very, very solid specs. It's actually true. But of course that was not the reason. But the reason was that all these brilliant individuals just followed their own favorite language and just wanted their own clients to build. But you know, ultimately what came out of it is amazing. Like the specification. I just remember just a few times that the sophistication had to be, had to be changed. There's like kind of one case when there's like a modular operation that was not exactly minus, I think it was minus number exactly. Not sure exactly. There was another woman, I think it was around Easter 2015, whereas before in the year leading to the launch. And I think that was when it's kind of problem that the uncle was had. The two uncles had the same time stamp I think and that led to a fork. Remember I wrote up a kind of blog post about this and never, never, never published it. So interesting.

SPEAKER_00: Talking to Jakob Chapluk. So he was an intern at the Berlin office in 2015 but he was telling me about a hard fork that had happened on the mainnet around two weeks or so after launching, which I was completely unaware of. But then looking back, you know, there was a sort of a security announcement by Juta was a patching of the Geth client. And while I've been doing stuff myself in terms of like running old clients, I saw that as well. If you run geth 1.00 or get 1.01, it. It gets stuck. It can't go through frontier blocks. So it was actually a hard fork.

SPEAKER_01: Do you remember what it was related to? It was not that interesting that you remembered.

SPEAKER_00: I mean it was, it was some kind of gas counting or something, you know, just some kind of, some kind of little bug. But, but that was funny. That was a thing that I, you know, I was not aware about because I, you know, so it was a hard fork but it was never given a name because it was just an accident.

SPEAKER_01: Yes, sure.

SPEAKER_00: And, and you know, you wonder how many more of these little things there were that happened that sort of forgotten in the mists of time. Yes, but yeah, so I mean through that early 2014 year you were working initially on the C and then later on the Go, I mean was like how many people were working on go in 2014?

SPEAKER_01: I mean it was really just a few people around. Jeff I think was mainly designer and designer Alex Vanessande from Brazil and. Yeah, and who after him.

SPEAKER_00: But you were the second team member then, is that right?

SPEAKER_01: Correct. Just about. Or maybe actually the first officially, I'm not sure. The first paid one, I'm not sure but I mean we came roughly at the same time with Alex and with, I think with Felix Short, definitely.

SPEAKER_00: Right, yeah. In terms of, in terms of employment. Yeah but I meant, I meant when you were working earlier, you know, when you, when you started there, I mean, were there other people working on that go Ethereum ahead of your joining in with him?

SPEAKER_01: Not really. Not really. So he was, that was pretty much among ones that contributed the code as far as I remember. And I mean there was quite, quite a vibrant ecosystem of. Yeah, like ecosystem, community of people there. Like you know, the later became Sloky, there was like Nick Savers around like super tall dude and we were going together to the, the Bitcoin conference, I think it was in April.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, you went to Toronto?

SPEAKER_01: No, no, it was, it was Amsterdam.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, okay.

SPEAKER_01: And that's when I had the chance to really talk to, to Vitaly quite a bit. It was very nice and I got a big parted as well. So nice, nice, nice time with this nice time time.

SPEAKER_00: Nick Savers is a name that I've seen a lot of times and I, I, I, I've never really met or spoken to him. I guess he was around a lot early and then maybe kind of disappeared out and maybe he's a little bit of a anon guy that doesn't, you know, show face.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I mean he never joined. He was never, I don't think he was ever like officially part of mt, but he was always like, yeah, around and helping us. I think he was employed by some bank.

SPEAKER_00: But I saw he and some others did the first continuous integration, you know, they were doing the build system and then he did work on the Java client as well.

SPEAKER_01: That is true. And Java client was mainly read by what was his name? Roman Mandalay, who kind of mysteriously disappeared after. I'm not sure what happened to Him.

SPEAKER_00: I did see him on Facebook for quite a time. He seems to have either disappeared or something since.

SPEAKER_01: But I remember at the London DEFCON one it was definitely around there with the whole Ethiom J team. Yeah, I don't know what their name.

SPEAKER_00: Was but Ether Camp.

SPEAKER_01: That's correct. Thanks. Thanks for reminding us. Well, nostalgia, all these, all these phrases.

SPEAKER_00: So yeah, it was early, sort of early 2017 I think that he kind of of disappeared. They did hack a gold and you know this, this some kind of like hackathon that there was some controversy about. It looked like the team kind of like bought votes votes or something but were paid out anyway. And then yeah, he sort of disappeared with some people thinking he'd exit scammed but I'm not convinced he did because if he did it was the worst like exit scam ever because it was so early, you know, like wasn't like anyone had got any kind of big amount of money or anything at that point. Sort of a very poor scam.

SPEAKER_01: He's definitely enabled and also committed guy.

SPEAKER_00: So maybe. So you'd mentioned about, you'd mentioned about, you know, your, your sort of collaborative sort of sub team. So that's, that's Ether Sphere.

SPEAKER_01: Well, it's kind of. It was, it was a wishful thinking that it might be Ethersphere but on the other hand I kind of, I did, I did register that as an organization on GitHub at least and even I think it was pretty much the one of the first Ethereum related brands in a way. I mean if I can call it a brand. I mean I think at the time it was only Aryan Industries.

SPEAKER_00: Right. Yeah. Aris.

SPEAKER_01: Who later became Monax, this is Mammoth Marmot thingy and they did some nice work by the way. But yeah, so Ethosphere was the home of maybe most of our work and then we kind of committing through that to the, to the Ethereum code base.

SPEAKER_00: So that was yourself? That was yourself, Daniel Nagi.

SPEAKER_01: Yes. And later George Pfeffer like already hired to work on the Light client. I think it was in 2015 already. And yeah, because he was not on Defcom0 but yeah, Defcom0 was already kind of. I mean it is very. So Danny and me joining by that time there was quite a bit of. Yeah, quite a bit of pass around with him I think.

SPEAKER_00: So maybe could you say a bit about Swarm? Because my understanding is that some of the. Went an awful long way back.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. So I don't know if you remember there was in May, May 2014 there was a seminal, you know, triad of talks in I think it was in my chapel somewhere or somewhere Islam. And in that talk that was the first appearance of web3 in the Ethereum context. It was like always usually explained. These founders really realized how decentralization can basically also be extended and logical to support the entire. Be the back end of the entire web. And basically if you extend it to data, app data and then hosting and so basically put a data layer on top and then maybe the messaging, then you can conceive of it as the word computer with this holy trinity of. You can see them like the Ethereum blockchain as the word computers. CPU and disk will be small and then whisper would be the kind of messaging layer.

SPEAKER_00: So you were mentioning Whitechapel. So that was again some meetups was it? That was happening there.

SPEAKER_01: And I think maybe maybe Ethereum even had some sort of co working or like some sort of high and high end office there, maybe maybe a room or two because we often found Vitalik there. So not entirely sure how this looks like. I don't want to see anything but yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Would that have been when that a.

SPEAKER_01: Lot of internal meetings as well.

SPEAKER_00: Would that have been when that kind of famous diagram would first have surfaced? You know the one with like the circle and the apps coming in at the side.

SPEAKER_01: Yes, that was just about, just about.

SPEAKER_00: That time including QML I saw. So it was not just HTML, it was QML and QT as other anticipated tech platforms.

SPEAKER_01: Yes, that's when Web3 was born. And it's kind of the crazy protocol names like after these. Which is a. Which is also the lettering in Icelandic.

SPEAKER_00: Oh yeah, the thorn.

SPEAKER_01: Yes. And so that's when biz&sh was invented. Also Vitaliks gimmicks.

SPEAKER_00: Those Ethereum. Well, the sub protocols. Right, sub protocols running on a common basis. But that Ethereum was just one of many related protocols.

SPEAKER_01: And that's why I was very dedicated to this whole Ethereum at the time. I really kind of understood what it means to have the entire kind of Turing complete computation being secured on its own with the blockchain. And they kind of really envisioned quite a bit, quite a change in how the Internet works if you have Swarm and Whisper and all these things. So I quite like the idea. And then later I kind of learned that, you know, not only did we socialize on BitTorrent at the time and kind of wanted to improve, but actually some of us like Danny operating at DC node had some legal troubles maybe, maybe even also kind of talk about this with him at some point. So that's kind of brought us, brought him quite, quite directly in the kind of realm of implementing small. This idea of a decentralized storage and incentivization, etc. And name resolution 1, 1, let me see you connected.

SPEAKER_00: And Zolt had mentioned to me that he thought that the idea for Swarm had gone back to at least 2011.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, so. Yeah, so there was this idea, of course, I don't know about that, but. But it was mainly, mainly Danny's idea that. I mean he saw the amazing, amazing qualities of pettorrent, but he also saw some drawbacks. So many historically it's best to derive the whole idea of soul from them. And because Pete Torrent was difficulty like starting a download, there's all this kind of voice and throttling, throttling rules. And of course didn't have the proper incentives to keep the data. And also of course had the problem with the individual bits of the file not being addressable right away. You had to use a tracker to resolve them. And of course that there's also a problem with the, with how, you know, how, how much the previous interviews in Parallels. Because I mean, as you remember, you know, for example, in Germany there was legal prosecution for Pooh, who used to be Torrent.

SPEAKER_00: Oh, I didn't know that.

SPEAKER_01: And I mean, not the time, but I mean much later, but yeah. So I think what Dani was trying to do is like came up with an idea of how to chunk things. In a way, every chunk is kind of content addressable and also kind of that some of the placement of chunks is also part of the DHT. So normally a DHT like a DN table is basically the idea that you put node IDs and then kind of chunk or IDs of content basically in the same space and somehow you get information. What's the location, like, who to download it from? About these chunks from neighborhoods that have the same address or like. Yeah, similar address. So there's usually a metric on this. If you use the logarithmic distance like that, then you can work with Kademnia and it's Kadamblia networks. You kind of iterate through the piers like you keep a few peers connected and you go. So then you go closer one to this guy, to this guy and the hash of Star wars and you want to watch Star wars and then you go him up and ultimately you see what. Where the chunks are we can download from. Obviously this is not very private, so. And then. And also kind of it's not Very as you know from the. From this kind of legal problems that it's also not very deniable. And if you have. If you have enforced certain chunks should reside so you kind of enforce a kind of orange layer on top of it, then you can probably deny that you know anything about it system that enforces that parts of parts of the Star wars story. Basically it was Dany's Junius idea that I think we call it the dpa. He sent us to preemie Jackite. So basically an archive of preimages preimages. There's a bit of data that the image of is the hash. Yet the pre image is what's before the hashing the actual piece of the data. And so this idea of actually storing not the location but the actual data at the place in the DHT has direct DHT interpretation was the dpa. And that was kind of a very important, very important notion that came and then became very important in this form. And then yeah, and then a lot of other things came. So I remember that we were in 2000 as fishing or fourth diameter and. And that winter day we were sitting in the arena Plaza in Budapest the three of us with FEFE talking about this and how to start implementing because there was a pressure to obviously implement the whole thing with using UDP as the networking stack because it was considered that like TCP is too heavy and to too slow. But then obviously that at the time you already had the devphool it's very very easy to implement it and then try this protocol. So I suggested that maybe instead of using UDP just use TCP but use it forwarding keep alive some connections Phase I connections, Phase I permanent connections with the peers and just use the Kademlia with the through the live connections that each forwarding like reach locally decided to forward to the closer node and ultimately move backward. Like you forward the request and you backward the chunk after all. And so it was. It seemed like very easy to implement. And we did exactly that. Turned out to be one of the. One of the best and most interesting choices of Swarm. It turns out that that's what allows the kind of peer to peer accounting to be working. And also this kind of gives the. Gives the privacy features that this form has basically office case the originator of the request. If you think about it, no one knows that. And when someone megaderp is asking you something and they want to watch the Star wars or you know, or someone upstream wants to watch and also kind of it directly solved the opportunistic caching problem, how to distribute automatically popular content. So with the retrieval paths or the forwarding PS can just remember some of the chunks. So it's very, very interesting how these, how these ideas like started and then basically kind of coalesced in 2006. 16 Swarm I think, I think the first, the very first relief surf in guest 1.5. Second so it was a, it was December 2016. Yes. For public pilot was released and I remember there was already kind of how we viewed video. We call it streaming, but it's actually not real time streaming. It's like just watch the video file. There was a nice tweet about that too.

SPEAKER_00: And just to take a step back, so I mean my understanding of a primary thought that there was with Swarm was that because you could have this, you know, the holy trinity, right of sort of like decentralized compute database, the blockchain swarm for the decentralized file system and storage and then whisper for that decentralized messaging that you could have this really nice kind of synergy of say a primary issue which is still really not solved of saying, well, how do you host the web front end to make a whole application? Yes, you need your smart contracts and your transactions and things, but you need an application wrapping around that. So really the thought that if you had a decentralized storage mechanism that could store like the HTML and the JavaScript and so on, that you want like an incentive system so that that stuff is available if people want it. You know that you don't have a tragedy of the commons where only most popular content is available. But also because if you are building on Ethereum, you've got, you've got the cryptocurrency to do the incentives, you've got the smart contract system that allows you to implement those incentive systems and all of these things can fit together into a holistic unstoppable whole of saying, well here you go, you've got your applications which cannot be stopped, but that's the full stack. And it seems even now that there's an awful lot of stuff which is dependent on centralized hosted services and it's very central.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, yeah, I'm pretty sad about this, to be honest. I mean there's a lot of these things like I don't know if you remember this big, I don't know, was it Bitbase? That was the biggest crypto heist ever because of the, because of the safe hack. If that had been using Swarm, then it was much more difficult to change all these kind of transactions under the hood because they had to, what they had to do is like they hacked the person, had the devs account and then uploaded something through S3 which then the safe wallet used. And of course these are much more difficult to do if these things are. The content address is of course registered. This is how these things work. Like, you know, you start from the blockchain which that single source of truth like ENS or services as a name, you resolve it to content hash and then the content hash is retrieved from these decentralized stores.

SPEAKER_00: And I mean Again, that 2016 kind of era was when ENS was coming to life as well. So yeah, I mean that's another thing actually.

SPEAKER_01: Nick Johnson was first part of the Swarm team, as part of the Swamp team. He developed the ENS and then later took off.

SPEAKER_00: I didn't know he, he worked on Swarm. I knew he was part of the Geth team. But he did some Swarm as well, eh?

SPEAKER_01: Well, definitely, yeah, I recruited him to be honest.

SPEAKER_00: Fantastic. Did you know him in, in London?

SPEAKER_01: No, no, no. I mean he was just part of the community. Valuable contributions to the. After that.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, let me just check the timeline. But I think he, he got hired like really pretty soon after me. I started in February 2016 and I think he was, he was maybe June, same kind of time as Hudson. Yeah, let's see. So yeah, I started in February, Greg Colvin in March, Everton Fraga in, in April.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: And yeah, June. Both Hudson and Jamie Pitts and Nick Johnson all June 2016. What was I going to mention? So yeah, you talked about DEFCON 0. So that was, that was November 2014 in, in Berlin, I imagine. Was that the first time that you will have met quite a number of these people.

SPEAKER_01: Especially special memory is my, my meeting with Alex Leverington. Oh yes, the fear to fear fame. Yeah, very interesting. We had lots of discussions. Yeah, very adamant on, very stubborn with his own way of thinking about the protocol. I have to say he was much more knowledgeable than I was at the time. So I was just trying to learn a lot from him. But at the same time was, okay, we're starting to be a bit more pragmatic and trying to, you know, savvy and then like have to simplify. I, I remember I, I, I first basically brought together the kind of specs for the, for that protocol then and then, you know, that was not really followed just right. Yeah, yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Well, I mean the other, the other piece there is that libp2p as part of the protocol, you know, labs, IPFs that already existed at that time. So that was kind of interesting, right? This whole dev p2p lib p2p.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, you know how Ethereum kind of suffered like this kind of. What's the word for this mate?

SPEAKER_00: Not invented here syndrome.

SPEAKER_01: Thank you. And like, you know, the RRP RRPX stuff.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: Then we have their own serialization protocol, like the Fear to Be as well. I have to say that Fear to Be at some point was kind of a lean, a leaner party protocol.

SPEAKER_00: Right, excellent.

SPEAKER_01: For the purposes of, for including into this form, it's a. It has a lot less bloated. But of course it had a lot of problems in terms of maintenance. I mean it was just not appropriate to start like certain and build everything from scratch. In a way it's like in retrospect it was probably not the best idea to be honest.

SPEAKER_00: And I mean that's got, then that's got stuck in the execution clients forever. You know that the consensus clients now are using LibP2P and aren't using RLP anymore, but the execution client got stuck with Dev P2P forever. And I mean I remember having discussions with various people on this in sort of 2016 of saying, well, could you have both protocols, you know, people looking at sort of could you do a bridge protocol so that some of the stuff could run over LibP2P and you could have like relay nodes really with the thought that you like libp2p you could run in a browser. Right. You know, dev p2p you could never run in a browser. And so like Kumarvest was working with somebody from the Parity team, maybe Robert around or maybe a little later, 2017, 2018 of trying to see, well, can we, you know, can we get a light, a light client in browser, you know, talking to all of these things but never, you know, never quite happened. Some of these decisions just, just last forever.

SPEAKER_01: It was only after we, after the SW left the foundation is when, when we kind of switched to the peer to peer as well, started a B client development.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right. I was, yeah, I wasn't aware that that that transition had happened. So I mean DEVCON 0. So that was, you know, that was late 2014. But you know, things, things continued obviously through, through 2015 all the way up.

SPEAKER_01: Was just an idea which was kind of mainly kind of was meant to be specked out or kind of started by, by Donnie who had this kind of very interesting past with decentralized storage and he actually presented his, his vision of that death course. 0 yeah everyone watch it Very good early capturing of this idea after that.

SPEAKER_00: And at that point he, so at that point he got, he got hired in and you know that that became a real, a thread of official development within the Ethereum stack.

SPEAKER_01: Absolutely correct. And then later, then as time went by gathered around him and continued on churning out some code around who? Sorry, yeah, about Danny. And then, and then kind of slowly, slowly kind of organically became a little bit of a sub team after that and yeah, and so after that like never really contributed the first bit which he, which was even, I think he was even programmed on before it still.

SPEAKER_00: Came as you said he was telling me that, you know, he was thinking that was what he would be doing when he was hired in but then almost immediately Jeff told him yeah, no you're not, you're just doing, you're just working on Geth.

SPEAKER_01: Yes, yes. I mean you signed for to develop the incentivize their lifetime protocol she worked on for many, many years and it's a bit sad that it never took off to be honest, but there's been a lot of things.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, well I mean it's, it's, it's tough. I mean that's my interest in. That is where my own journey started because when I kind of got, got interested in Ethereum the first thing I wanted to do was, was I was really into mobile and wearables at that time so I wanted to see can I, can I run an Ethereum node on my smartwatch? So I was doing ARM Linux, cross builds of cpp, Ethereum and my thought at that time was okay, you know, light client is still getting worked out but I'll get a full client working on all these devices and then when light client comes out they'll just work, right? So I can run a full client on a test net, make sure it all works. But it's just a matter of time. Of course we'll have light clients and of course everything will scale and of course you can run all things on any devices, right? We're thinking every phone is. You're just going to have an Ethereum road node running every router media box.

SPEAKER_01: We're still suffering the kind of RPC and centralized access, right? How unstoppable is that?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, it will just get, you know, you, it will just come with every Linux distro, you know, it'll just be like a service that's just part of the Linux distro, you know, just get shipped. You've just got this background service that you know, that is just talking Ethereum you know and it'd be the same as like having you know, a network stack or an audio stack or whatever. It's just like yeah, you're going to have a consensus stack and you know, it'll just like run in the background and just work you like cheap and easy. Yeah, not. No, that didn't quite happen.

SPEAKER_01: And then 10 years in, I mean it's kind of. Maybe things are starting like I don't know if you don't debut project for example.

SPEAKER_00: No. What's that?

SPEAKER_01: How to boot from so on basically. Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Booting. Booting from Swarm.

SPEAKER_01: Yes. I mean they just building the, this kind of UEFI client. It's. That's can. Can bring up a kind of any, any operating system.

SPEAKER_00: Wow. Okay. That's interesting.

SPEAKER_01: Yes interesting. I mean it's not worked out fully yet but the guys, the guys.

SPEAKER_00: I mean there's a fair bit of like you know, networking stuff that would have to happen before you could even start. Right. Like that's having to have some kind of bootstrapping little mini OS or something.

SPEAKER_01: It seems that even before that you can, you can do it just. Yeah, I mean they already have that kind of pattern. Kind of a small Linux side environment is created and they moved from that. That's interesting. And they can do it just with the method.

SPEAKER_00: So I mean through those early years prior to mainnet launch you'd mentioned work on the yellow paper so I mean how, how was it being determined what you know, what feature complete, what good enough looks like, you know, have you got a good idea of what. What you'd have to have before launch could happen?

SPEAKER_01: I mean. Well, I didn't have a clear idea really because it took me a while to understand four systems. I'm very honest with you. It's like I think it's only Jeff who really, really overstood that. What was needed to be built and he was building massive things on his own single handedly. It's really, really crazy. I remember when I it was one of the not so willing spirits that I was assigned the task of building the block pool which was supposed to be like, you know the one that takes the blocks from the other clients, builds up the header chain and kind of validates it, etc. And I was working a lot on that and I remember time and he had enough and said okay, I just build it and basically one or two days and it was done. Interesting experience.

SPEAKER_00: And Christoph Jens was you know, building the cross client tests as well. Did you do work with those tests yourselves? You. You sorry.

SPEAKER_01: I mean no, I. I did myself but yeah I remember it was always. He was always running and he found a lot of things through that kit.

SPEAKER_00: So in. In sort of July 2015 we had the arrival of. Of Ming Chan and shortly afterwards you know, pretty serious budget cuts because within that year or so the foundation had managed to pretty much burn through the vast majority of the money.

SPEAKER_01: Austerities I think he was the official name of that. Yeah I remember at the time when Vitalik basically said that Oasis is not going to be sworn. What's going to be is maybe some. Maybe she just kind of use IPFs and let's try to work on the incentive system that we can put on that.

SPEAKER_00: Okay.

SPEAKER_01: And I mean I remember that maybe it's not a secret anymore but Jeff. Jeff kind of let us. Let us keep working on Swarm throughout this period with so we did end very soon after kind of those are basically ready incentivization scheme for the bandwidth incentives. It's also very interesting because Swarm seems to be one of the only. One of the only systems like decentralized storage systems that has a proper balance intent sent in a proper accounting system like this T for that accounting and it seems like there's it's quite. I don't know, I don't know. It's probably conjectured but it doesn't look like there's any other proper way to do this because if you think about bandwidth first of all it's a kind of instant gratification thing. You either forward for someone like you either serve a request or not. So it's not like the shady territory affair like a future promise like like storage you have to then record record your deal on the. On the chain and like you know some proof proof of availability etc. But bandwidth is just much more. Much more kind of. Yeah seems like easier swap by just peer to peer to peer accounting that you know I forward for you, you forward for me and which is really for each other and it is a big tilt then some sort of conversation should happen but naturally maybe not even has to be some settlement around just. And then we kind of like this idea that's also kind of. That is genius that came up in this kind of checkbook idea. It's very early version of of vacuum sort of payment chain like micropayment solution and yeah so that bandits incentive was a very powerful one lived on lock and I remember that kind of seemed that the incentivization for stoich was much more difficult the way to arrive at there was the negative incentives to solve the problem of sort of pricing and the growth and who's responsible for whom what and if everything is recorded on chain how to the privacy of things. It's very, very difficult. So he came much, much, much, much later and kind of worked out. Look at that part as well. It was only after even the token, the Swamp token was released. 2021. Yeah. Anyway, so yeah, going back to the roots, the austerities.

SPEAKER_00: So you were continuing to work through late 2015 even though it's had supposedly been defunded?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, yeah, kind of. Yes. I mean we were trying to figure out this incentive of course. Like and in that. In that sense we were of course not really off track in a way, but. But. And I was also kind of working at the time on the Waytheon client on many aspects of it. And by 2017 the kind of Swarm client was kind of integrated and was released within Boy Theory. It was in 2000, 2018 when this kind of the concept release was part of the G. And it's kind of when the. So when the Swarm client was starting, you start the standalone swarm.

SPEAKER_00: Starting 2018, you said.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Of concept three.

SPEAKER_00: So all the way through until that point you were continuing to work as a sort of a GU team member.

SPEAKER_01: Yes. I mean officially we were part of the. Yes, the team. It's part of the Epstein entity and kind of. Yeah, slowly. Slowly kind of extending the team as the protocol got some movement. So yeah, it was interesting times because I remember in 2016 when after Nick Johnson left, he hired some other people on the protocol and then. Yeah, that's what kind of. I am more like I emerged as the team leader at the time, kind of organically trying to pull together the threads and.

SPEAKER_00: So with the Swarm Foundation. How and when did that happen and how did you come to, you know, kind of, you know, leave. Leave the geth team, I guess.

SPEAKER_01: Well, since 2018 autumn man, actually 2018 summer and a person called Albert Kevin, like started to offer the help for Swan. They were kind of asking. Asking what to what we need. They seem very helpful.

SPEAKER_00: And the next Albert Lee, Albert Knee is this.

SPEAKER_01: Yes, I think so, yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Who. Who had basically joined the Ethereum foundation at the same. Same time as Aya.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, yeah, I. I am very, very, very. I mean, you know, to be honest, I'm very good terms with Ming and before so. But when I came he sent away very helpful and you know, try to try to solve some staffing problems and things and. But there's your negotiations started and I'm free. And after that it seems that by Prague we kind of get into some serious discussions and then. And after that we kind of. I think it was right at the last day of the. The Prague DEFCON was submitting the proposal for funding funding and that was very interesting because I never really got any serious feedback on that and always a bit wondered like what could have happened. And then there was some issues went on with. Sean o' Connor says the point of content delegated by I.

SPEAKER_00: Who.

SPEAKER_01: Sorry, Sean. Sean o'. Connor.

SPEAKER_00: Right.

SPEAKER_01: Yes. There was the delegated point of contact for. For us, the Swamp team. And then slowly, slowly like after that I think. I think there's a kind of totally the EF scores changed a bit and that's when every team need to submit a kind of proposal and things that's a kind of. This whole scheme started of like trying to. Trying to graduate some of the. Some of the teams and some of the protocols after the foundation. Yeah have them get individual funding and bridge the gap with some grants. And then that's what happened with the small as well. So I remember 2019, there was a. There was a solo summit in Madrid which is very, very successful. A lot of partnerships like subscribe to some. Some monetary help as well. But then. And then the foundation also kind of.

SPEAKER_00: Prompted.

SPEAKER_01: To back it up and then. And somehow that never happened. So we kind of resorted to launching our own Token, which we did in 2021 and some kind of. It's already with one year into the new Swarm client, like the B client and. And yes. So when we launched Token we started a new. With some new life breathed into the whole thing. And that's when we started working seriously about implementing the positive storage incentives. And the rest of the features just came.

SPEAKER_00: I mean, was that the same sort of time as your code base became independent? Like did that kind of coincide that you're like, right, we're an independent thing. We're going to make a new client. We're going to switch to LibP2P and it's, you know, it's not going to be integrated in directly with Geth. Were those happening at the same time or did the tech happen earlier?

SPEAKER_01: Yes, not really. I think the Swamp code base was taken out of the Goethe quite a lot before. So I think maybe 19. I'm not even sure when, but I think it was POC 4 I think. And when it was taken out I think it was. AM is too expensive I guess or something. Anyway, it's not really good idea to Mix the two. We were able to connect. It's very, very separate and kind of separate development scheme agenda and I guess.

SPEAKER_00: Maybe Nick Johnson's sort of experience with spinning out ENS and the ENS foundation that would. That would have preceded yours. So perhaps you were looking to that as a. As a pattern. Sorry, we're getting some really bad audio. Can you maybe move a little closer?

SPEAKER_01: Yes. Can you hear me now?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, that's better.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, yeah, it's very inspiring. And we did get some. So we did get a grant from the. From the. From the foundation and also kind of bridging. Bridging grant. And then. And as I said, like later, somehow, somehow it never materialized with that kind of program that had budget put together with the team. But ultimately we made it. And then we had our own foundation in Switzerland which started the Swarm association and then which kind of issued tokens. Token. And yeah, that. A new year of development.

SPEAKER_00: One thing we skipped over, maybe we can just quickly go back to is. Is DEVCON1. So that was in London in November 2015. So I assume you were there. Do you have. What are your memories of that event?

SPEAKER_01: I just recently rewatched it and I remember I was very. Pretty much kind of very sick already. I don't know if you. If you know, but I had. I was diagnosed with Parkinson's in 2009, 15 years ago. And when I did DEFCON 1, I was not very. You. It's not very easy to follow. And here I was a bit surprised. I didn't remember at the time. That was so. Such a. So difficult in terms of my movement. But sorry, sorry for that, for maybe unsolicited diversion. But yes. As for the content, I remember that we had a very, very. Yeah. Successful presentation of Zoom. There's a lot of interest at the time.

SPEAKER_00: I mean, I was looking back at. You're saying you're looking back. I was looking back at some DEFCON 1 videos recently.

SPEAKER_01: Yes.

SPEAKER_00: And like, I guess my. My takeaway looking back is so many ideas were presented, you know, by that point, nearly anything that you can think of in all the different areas. It seemed that somebody was. Was working on that. You know, you'd got this real flourishing of people building on Ethereum by that point. You know, like anything you could imagine seems seemingly was presented there.

SPEAKER_01: I remember and I was already seeing. We always thought that okay, from next year we're gonna have like always wonderful decentralized service. Like decentralized, you know, deliver or like. Or justito. Whatever you call it, like decentralized eBay, decentralized Uber and Airbnb and all kind of things and of course, and then you know, of course they all need their kind of swarm like thing or either distribution or some sort of scalable. Scalable data layer behind it that came much, much later.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, many of them like five or ten years too early.

SPEAKER_01: Yes. And yeah, so this is definitely what happened to swamps like it did not realize much, much later in. Now at least it's working so, so.

SPEAKER_00: So yeah, can you talk a little bit about where swarm is now? What, what's, what's happening? How's the functionality?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, so we have quite solid network and, and kind of consolidated the fed narrow definition of the, of the protocol. So basically it's kind of DPA or like the distributed chunk store definition where nodes communicate basically and then they distribute the chunks. It's kind of a storage model as well as content distribution network and is a rather, rather strong privacy properties which are quite unique. And, and I mean really it's kind of old where the analogy is. I don't know, you make the checkbook and postage stamp. Postage stamp is something that you attach to a chunk piece of data to keep it alive and that's kind of a hot wallet anyway that's kind of when you put some money on it, some storage rent gets deduced and. And until it runs out of funds, you know, your content is live, is available hot and yeah, so I mean on the way we can very early when we implemented kind of this manifest idea, the manifest basically just like mapping of strings to documents which you can use as a key value storage from a sitemap but also kind of a directory tree. Right. So basically you can that way implement directories and files and so that was the first extension and we're already talking about erasure codes and stuff in 2016 and got only implemented maybe two or three years ago and. And it's kind of a very interesting concept of how we can invert it in the erasure codes. But yeah, so there's also this kind of thing called ACT which is like the access control mechanism. Access control mechanism that allows you to kind of manage the grantees that can access the accessor file or directory. So basically have a way to kind of get to the encryption decryption key encrypted content and one of the very interesting stuff in swap maybe one of the very interesting features is how you handle mutability. It's kind of symbolic feeds, swab feeds and it's basically kind of some sub block ens. If you think about it. So basically the integrity of the chunk is not, it's not by the content but actually by some sort of semantic convention. Let's say like okay, it's my, my website. It's like, let's see, this is something that you can guess. You know, my CV is then hashed together with your Ethereum address. That's the address now you can find it. And the mutable content is actually has a station by signature. So there's the signature which is the integrity of the chunk and it's this how we handle immutable content. And this also this case for kind of quickly, quickly changing stuff like databases and things.

SPEAKER_00: I mean where would you say swarm as of 2026 sits and compares with you know, say IPFS plus Filecoin or Arweave or others. How do they differ and you know what kind of uses?

SPEAKER_01: You're asking me? You probably got a technical answer how it compares.

SPEAKER_00: Well, let's keep it light if I am a, a dumb end user.

SPEAKER_01: No, I, I know but what I'm saying is that it's difficult not to, not to. Of course not to. Not to mention that in terms of e.g. adoption or in terms of even, even family.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. I mean maybe in terms of. Maybe in terms of adoption and just like top line features perhaps that one has and another doesn't.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. So IPFS is obviously very, very widely used also kind of in the Ethereum realm. It was always a very, very good and relatively simple, simple architecture, easy to understand I think if you compare it to sweet. So it lacks the privacy features as well as the incentives really. I mean you can say that you can PIN stuff and therefore get it preserved, but those pinning services are actually quite centralized. So it's like. And there's also kind of attackable in a way.

SPEAKER_00: Does filecoin work? Is that a real thing now?

SPEAKER_01: Filecoin kind of does it in some way. It's mainly, mainly good for archival and you have very strong. They kind of have killer feature these 12 availability proofs which actually work for proving that whatever you store there is available in various replicas which is not an obvious thing to do at all. And it's very good but mocking. But this is an instant meme of someone taking a magnetic tape out and it says like someone retrieving stuff from firehorn. Obviously if you don't have any kind of retrieval retrieval protocol or like hot retrieval layer with insert ignition when some sort of SLA attached to it. And it's a bit difficult to evaluate the proposition There I mean of course since then there was a lot of tries and then, since then that's changed and there's also kind of. There's been also attempts to link it to IPFS itself the platform. So. So filecoin kind of yeah, does its job. I think it's a bit of an overkill in terms of these incentives of like in terms of the availability proofs and also kind of suffer some bit of the previous issues. You have to negotiate the SOS level marketplace of storage. Swarm is very very different in that sense. The positive incentives it's just get rewarded for storage that belong to your neighborhood. And pricing and the redistribution of the kind of postage stamp revenue as you call it's kind of automatic here and there's no extra years that you or your file or anything somewhere chunks are always distributed across many neighborhoods and whatever belongs to you node operators get rewarded for. And this redistribution name can have a nice property of a central pricing basically that can be that sensitive to some sort of supply signals that we can get from the game itself. It has this nice method of checking supply for demand and therefore set the price based on that thermostat type of model. I mean the question is whether it works at all and some of the assumptions might not hold a pinch of salt. But in terms of its bandwidth incentive and in terms of this positive storage incentives and also the privacy properties I would say it's quite an advanced framework. I mean from apart from all the obvious goodies that we talked about like addressing and kind of URL based addressing storage and balanced distribution and also there's a lot of symmetry we put a lot of. They take it very seriously that the monetary incentives is what drives the sink from Batma. So I think there's some voices in the community that don't take very seriously this kind of motor instinct is they think that maybe altruism is really not that bad and I kind of understand where they're coming from. However we take it seriously that one's an incentive like having someone behind a node client that's kind of modeled by rational profit maximizing agent and turn this kind of relatively, relatively. Kind of lower level urge of maximizing your profit into something that's generally very, very usable on the network level emerges as a kind of intelligent system that can serve other purposes. And this is what incentive design, this is what Ethereum is amazing at Express with the smart contracts, all these kind of self enforcing contracts, how they can express stress beautiful incentive system and for example it's formally taken so seriously that the organization strategic decision is that clients can make that basically not that doesn't lead to kind of immediate disconnect because of a syntax problem or like something primitive violation. This should be incentivized at least, at least doing anything else than what the protocol dictates should, should not get a better, better reward. So basically you at least you lose money and then this is all the way from, from the connectivity how, how you connect and how you forward stuff how you and all the strategy of what you, what you kind of that you serve, what you, what you retrieve, what you cash and I know this kind of stuff are properly, properly incentivized.

SPEAKER_00: So let me, let me ask you one last big question is looking back over these 10 years, have things happened as you thought they might? What you thought Ethereum was at the start, has that been what it's become? You know what looking back on these 10 years, you know, what are your big reflections on this journey?

SPEAKER_01: Interesting question. So. Well, Ethereum is still very, very close to my heart in a way. But apart from the heart being science from the sentimental approach, I also think that it definitely fulfills many of its early promises and maybe some, maybe some of them are kind of maturing a bit slower than I would have wanted. I mean just think of the proof of stake which was supposed to come after maybe a few years it kind of happened and but you know some things take a while to even develop to even conceptualize properly and. Yes I mean for some of these earlier ambitions of, of proper apps being on Swarm. Sorry, sorry. Be like the Swarm Ethereum apps of course didn't materialize or I would say, I would say that they not considered as best property materials because I think you have web3 app is as web3 as the weakest link of it. Yeah. So if you anything that's not so decentralized in a stack like just think of the easiest examples of tornado cache but using inferior.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right.

SPEAKER_01: God forgot for me to say it but you know Infuria did block toning low cache at the point and it was obviously illegal to use in the.

SPEAKER_00: US.

SPEAKER_01: And but I mean so we still suffer from some of these, some of these early neglects like neglecting like clients neglecting the whole proof of like proofs and verification. It's a bit surprising some of these to me and it's worth kind of facing that like you know we're talking about Web3 but it's actually just.

SPEAKER_00: We.

SPEAKER_01: Talk through a PC and then which is kind of centralized and then we talk nfts and all this kind of stuff. But I mean, as Moxima in fact Blog put it, like he actually showed when an OpenSea the NFT that he created turns into a. Turns into a third image and that. Yes. So, you know, it's kind of. I mean, of course it's fun. It's okay to poke fun. I mean, you're part of this. And of course, of course, you know, some of these things might be. Might be, you know, a promise. Promise of maybe swarm of something that we might have missed and therefore kind of lagging behind with some of these overall ecosystem promises. But I don't know, I've been my. But yeah, instead of lamenting on this, I'm kind of. I just keep on there. I try to share some of the positive energies into this constructive action and stuff. So in this way I'm kind of. In general, my approach can be described easily with a bit of solar punk image that I'm relatively optimistic about the tech and the future of it. And I think this unstoppability is kind of unstoppable now. It's really not possible to slow it down. And I really hope that when people get it, they don't necessarily look forward all this kind of stupid regulations curbing. Curbing the uses of it and instead just yeah, go for certain.

SPEAKER_00: Okay, well, thanks so much and all the very best.

SPEAKER_01: Okay, thank you very much, Bob. It was lovely to talk to you and reminisce about the past.

SPEAKER_00: You too. Okay, thanks so much. Bye. Bye.

