SPEAKER_01: Okay, we are live. Welcome to this week's Unchained Oracles. As usual, I am joined. I'm Victor Wong. I'm founder and chief product officer at Strato. And as usual, I am joined with Kieran James Lubin, CEO of Strato. And the man with the oranges, Jim Hermosdior, CTO of Strato.

SPEAKER_03: From sunny California that's not so sunny right now.

SPEAKER_01: Have you eaten many oranges or are they just for show?

SPEAKER_03: There's a tree behind me.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, nice. Well, this week we are going to do our crypto year in review recap. But before we get into that, two quick things. One is, at some point during the show, I will announce a special giveaway. And it's going to be a really special year-end giveaway. But in preparation, we recommend that everyone get a Strato account, if you don't have one already, and join our Telegram, because those will be two parts of it.

SPEAKER_02: And before we get into the... The URL to sign up?

SPEAKER_01: Yes, thank you. It is Strato, S-T-R-A-T-O, dot nexus to sign up.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah, and you can go straight to app.strato.nexus.

SPEAKER_01: Yes. And thanks, Kieran. And then, we are joined by Michael Tan today for our Strato Spotlight, because we have lots of new features to show. So Michael, what do you have for us today to talk?

SPEAKER_00: Hi, everyone. Hey, so I'm showing you guys the easy savings path today. Basically, it's bridging in stables from Ethereum and saving them earning yield in the lending pool. So I start by connecting my Ethereum wallet as such. It's a really simple process. As long as you have it in the browser, my wallet is connected. I can pick between USDC and USDT. We're going to be adding a couple of different stables soon, including yield bearing ones. Let's bridge in a hundred here. Make sure this is checked so that it goes directly into the lending pool. We just added these cool modals, but you just need to confirm everything, sign the permit, confirm the transaction. Why is it? All right, there you go. Takes a couple of seconds. Waiting for the all safe. Great. Now we should be receiving the deposit one to two minutes into the lending pool. And that is your easy savings, fastest and easiest way to earn points on Strato.

SPEAKER_01: And now— So in the background, what's happening, Michael? It looks like we're converting from USDC into our local stables, USDST, and then putting it into the lending pool. Is that right?

SPEAKER_00: Yep, that's correct. And you could do the same with USDT if you'd like. Awesome. And we also have a bridge out feature if you ever need that over here. But for now, this is the easiest way to get money in the lending pool and start earning.

SPEAKER_01: Cool. And as everyone knows, we launched our season one reward program roughly two weeks ago. So how's that going, Michael?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, so we have quite a bit of points that have been issued. You can kind of check it here. The leaderboard, if you go to this tab, you can also go here to go directly to the leaderboard from the sidebar. But as it currently stands, it looks like I'm number 13 on this. You can check out the different activities in the network that are being done to earn points as well as the rewards here. These are your different positions that are currently earning points. And this is my lending pool from Easy Savings.

SPEAKER_01: Awesome. You got to bump up your activity to get up on the chart. You got to get to the top three soon. Well, thank you for joining us, Michael. And we look forward to the next segment. So with that, take care. Thanks, Michael. Okay, so let's talk about the crypto year in review. This has been like, when I kind of reflected, I realized this kind of been a crazy year for crypto in general. And I think for us specifically, there's just been so much going on. So let's start with what you think is the biggest story of the year. And I'm going to start with Jim. Jim, from your point of view, what do you want?

SPEAKER_03: You know, I want to push back a little bit on this one because I'm not going to push back. I'm going to answer the question, but I found this the least interesting of the questions, because sort of by definition, the biggest story is the stuff that we've all been talking about nonstop all year. Anyway, it's the stuff that's been in the news. So my answers to this are just going to be boring and obvious. At BlockApps, the big story was that this was a development year. We spent the whole year, we figured out what we wanted to do early on, we spent the whole year really making a great product and really only released it in the last few months. So that is the big story from us. In crypto in general, the big story was just the crazy ride that crypto took. It was like Bitcoin was down and then it was up and then it was down again. I don't even know where it is today. Somewhere in the middle of the year, I have this memory of seeing Eric Trump live in Toronto introducing some crypto project. So it's just sort of a crazy ride this year in crypto. But I will pass it on.

SPEAKER_01: Okay, Kieran, what was your biggest story of the year?

SPEAKER_02: Okay, so I'll quibble with Jim a little bit. I think, I guess mine's a little bit a meta story. So it depends what you mean by big. I have a little bit of a philosophical objection to news. News is always point in time and it doesn't really tell you trend. I think we would agree on this. And people over-index on the current and then under-index on what's really going on. And the biggest one for me was that adoption and price have continued to decouple. We started to see maybe 2023, 2024, that the supply of stables on chain, it previously was correlated with crypto prices and then started to stop being correlated with crypto prices. And stables on chain are all time high and transaction volumes and stables doubled again between 2024 and 2025. I believe, I asked the AIs this, they all said that. So at the same time prices are a little bit down from beginning of the year to end of the year. So this may just be how it is for a while. There's also other metrics like active wallets are up by maybe 10 million depending on the time interval that you consider. There are different estimates. Mobile's up 20-ish percent. And also the institutions are clearly doing more than wading in. They're actually quietly moving money with stables especially around the world. And there's more of a kind of recurring institutional buy that's going on. Part of the reason crypto's been so volatile is that a bunch of very aggressive speculators are buying and selling rapidly. And if you compare stocks, the stocks that get included in the major indexes, quite often people have their send 500 bucks a month to Vanguard. And so that smooths out the volatility to some degree in, let's say, medium to high market cap stocks. That's actually a little bit starting to happen in crypto. I think at some point you'll see some of the assets get included in indexes. So that same pool of capital will start to flow into crypto. It's been friendly on the regulatory side, at least largely. The U.S. is passing some of the laws. The laws may not be perfect, but they're better than before. And also just the behavior of the regulatory agencies is far less aggressive, far less arbitrary and capricious, if you will. And yet the prices are not up. So to me, this is okay. It might be a sign of maturity, but this is the story.

SPEAKER_01: Or do you think part of it might be that the adoption from institutions and more mainstream things is sort of a leading indicator of where it goes? It's not like some big BlackRock announces some big thing and they turn it on immediately.

SPEAKER_02: So maybe. It does feel like to me that most of the times the institutions are early and retail price action comes later. You see that like funding private companies, you need retail slash the public markets to get that next liquidity. I'm not sure because there was a time when everyone had their stimulus checks and was gambling at home during the pandemic when retail everything not just crypto, meme era. So I don't know what the trend— like now, I guess that was all stuff that was funded 2017, 2018 by ICOs, which were a mix of institutional and crypto whale retail and so on. So I don't know. I think the retail comes back, but it's a different form than the last time. Like definitely most people that trade, in general, this includes stock day trading, something like 90% lose. And one of our employees is fond of saying 90% lose and on average it takes 18 to 24 months for them to admit it and stop. And just total, you know, in effect. But so we may have burned like a whole lot of people but different ones will come in the future I think.

SPEAKER_01: So for me, I think the biggest story, well, maybe I'll start with the crypto one and then just my general theme. The crypto one is the return of building that matters in the crypto space. And what I mean by that is I think in the previous year, it was sort of the rise of meme coins. People were just kind of like marketing was winning the day. And it really was the people who could make a big splash of excitement in the market and I was kind of shocked when I looked at the timeline that the Libra coin was in February of this year. It feels so long ago. But now you see the projects that are rising, like Zcash, the rise of Zcash, projects that have been building for a long time and really, really investing on the infrastructure side. And even the institutions getting involved on the infrastructure side, like Temple by Stripe or things like Robinhood doing their own too. So I think, as builders ourselves, I like to trend back toward building. And I think that's a big trend this year. But I think part of the other trend, which is in crypto directly related, is that AI has gotten really, really good and it kind of affects everything, but it certainly affects my day-to-day and I think our day-to-day ability to deliver. So like our mutual friend, Steven Chu, who just published, I think the first theoretical physics paper that was co-authored by an AI. He describes AI at this point as a super genius that is kind of crazy, which is kind of exactly the thing. Yes, it does lead you on some goose chases sometimes, hallucinations and over, but its potential to shortcut so many things is so powerful.

SPEAKER_03: I think we're going through a phase right now in the last couple of months where people are sort of figuring out the limits of AI, which is an important step in this because now that's going to bring us to the next stage. Early in the year, it just looked like it was magic and can do everything. And now, but we knew it wasn't doing everything because it hasn't taken over the world yet. But now we're sort of understanding what it is that it can do and can't do. Yeah, I agree.

SPEAKER_01: And even hard to check kind of what it should be doing. I think when we just took the outputs and we just assumed, okay, those are okay. But I think it's like checking it. What do you think, Kieran?

SPEAKER_02: Let me add an example. I've talked a bunch of times about getting back into writing code because the AI is so good. And I thought that this applied mostly to the app layer of our stack. So for those who haven't seen it, we have an app that lets you save in high quality assets, participate in swap pools, lending pools, all that sort of thing. It looks like kind of a, somewhere between a DeFi app and it's definitely DeFi in architecture and like a Coinbase style application. And so the AI is actually really good at writing code in the app layer. But I didn't think so. We also have our own in-house blockchain that we've worked on for years, starting with being an Ethereum mainnet client, kind of forking off for enterprise use and then going back to being our own standalone L1. I didn't think the AI was going to be ready to help code in the really hardcore platform layer, but at least for simpler stuff, I discovered a couple of weeks ago that it can. In fact, if I describe, so the thing you have to have is a good instinct for how the pieces work together. The peer to peer process is doing this and we see this in the logs and then the data is getting to the VM this way. And so I still have all of that, but I can barely write the Haskell anymore, but I don't have to. If I keep it pretty constrained and this is a surgical fix, not a big rewrite I couldn't do or something like that. I can just describe what's wrong and what's probably right, and it more or less gets it right. And I don't think it could do the Haskell six months ago. It's pretty good now, again, for surgical fixes, not really big stuff, but each part of our stack getting more accessible to AI is a remarkable change. I'd also say, I remember when it was very good at net new code snippets but couldn't read a code base. And now I can read a code base like maybe as of a year ago, maybe eight months, ten months. It can read a code base so much faster than I can that I just don't need to read the code base except line by line on a specific issue.

SPEAKER_03: So Stephen did say something in the podcast that until he said it, I kind of was intuiting it. But it really was a moment when he said it. I've been wondering why, even though I have all these amazing tools, why sometimes I am not going a lot faster than I'm going. And in fact, sometimes I'm even slowed down. And he expressed something that he had experienced in writing the physics paper, which is the wild goose chase problem. These things know too much and they can throw out lots of great ideas and you can go off and just spend hours trying to research each of the ideas. And you end up wasting more time researching all the potential good ideas. And a lot of them don't pan out. Some of them do. Sometimes I learn there's enough of a yield to it where I get some lifetime tool out of it that it was worth it to do it. But I'm wasting a lot of time just slavishly doing what the AI wants me to do. And I've gotten a little bit ruder with the AI lately and telling it, that's a stupid idea. I'm not going to waste my time.

SPEAKER_02: Yeah. Let me add to that also. Sometimes it feels like there's certain types of attorneys or accountants or whatever professional service workers who want the belt and suspenders thing, like let me give the answer that minimizes my risk as the professional services provider, oh and by the way maybe cost the client a lot of time and money. Yeah, I agree. You have to yell at it when it gets a little too— I don't know.

SPEAKER_01: And the thing is also, I think the thing with Steve that he also said, and by the way, everyone should check out the latest episode on the Metaphone podcast, because he did the paper with the AI on physics, which I don't understand. Jim, you're going to have to explain it to me one day. But he also did another paper on how he did use the AI to write the paper. And that I found fascinating. I feel like we're entering what I call the centaur phase. There was this phase in chess with AI where the best chess players were actually computer chess engines combined with expert chess players. And I feel like that's where we are now. You need some level, you need to be an expert yourself to be able to evaluate the output of what the AI does. And you can't always just say, oh, the AI should know what it—

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, but it's like the AI telling the master chess player to go off and play 20 games to try different things out or something.

SPEAKER_02: Well, the solution is ask the other AI to play.

SPEAKER_01: Exactly. Double check that thing.

SPEAKER_03: You don't even have to ask another AI. These things are myopic enough that if you just turn around and ask the same AI, sometimes it's very angry at the first, its own first. It's true.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_03: What irritates me a lot is when it's like, here is a snippet of code for you to try out. And I try it and it doesn't work. And I come back to it. And the AI is like, you're an idiot for trying that snippet of code. Obviously it wouldn't work. Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: One area AIs have not gotten down though is spatial reasoning. I did ask it to come up with a design for a box, and give me the lumber that I needed. I just kind of grabbed the list, ran off, got it. And then I came back and it was totally wrong. And then when I looked at the diagram, it was the wood had overlapped with each other in space. Things like that.

SPEAKER_02: Spatial reasoning seems... You would need to train it on a bunch of engineering diagrams or something. That's actually, someone should do that. I'm surprised. Probably a bunch of people are working on it.

SPEAKER_01: I'm sure they're working on it. And I think this is sort of in the space between the diffusion models and the LLMs. So I think that's where, and I know a bunch of people are working on kind of getting those, but I think when you ask the spatial relationship questions, you can be sent to one or the other and it sometimes gets confused. Okay. Second big category, biggest surprise of the year. I'm going to start with Kieran. What's that?

SPEAKER_02: Okay, so I thought about this. I have a two-part answer, slightly related. One, October 10th, that was like a Friday. I think we had wrapped some work up. I was sort of like, I can't remember exactly what was going on. But then everything just, was it November 10th? 10-10, right? And then just everything blew up. You're up the next morning. It's like, whoa! Like 20 billion. It was like the 20x larger liquidation than had ever happened before. I guess there's a lot more leverage in the system with Hyperliquid and all of these. But sort of a perfect storm of circumstances. And it just happened so fast. And I guess all financial markets are like this, things can just explode in an instant or— all financial markets with enough liquidity and derivatives. But that was wild. I'm gonna add a related but on the edge. So metals are at an all-time high right now. Yes. When we were starting to build out metals, we acquired some for direct sale on our version one marketplace. And I feel like our average silver cost basis was like 25 bucks, 27, 29. It's like over 70. So at least in the last day, I don't know what that is right now. Gold also all time high and crypto's down. And it sort of shows, I believe sort of this for a while. But and I hope it maybe becomes not true in the future. Mostly crypto does not behave like a defensive asset. It behaves like a high beta tech stock. It's risk on. So you'll see if the major tech companies go down, Bitcoin goes down, and vice versa. It's not always true. I think Liberation Day, we saw that happen for both. And then crypto actually went up in sort of a, well, if they're going to restrict the movement of goods, they're not going to restrict the movement of crypto. It's hard to do. Why is this? I think it's just the same type of people buying both and they see it as a future facing technology speculative asset.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, for a long time, people have pointed out that if you look at crypto, instead of acting as a hedge against the stock market, it acts as more of a high alpha line of the stock market.

SPEAKER_02: Early on, Bitcoin was totally uncorrelated with the stock market. But I think it probably started being correlated at least by 2020, but maybe even 2018, let's say.

SPEAKER_01: Okay, Jim, what was your biggest surprise of the year?

SPEAKER_03: So I'm going to say the return of, even though it never went away, and by the way, this might be recency bias because this has all been the last couple of months in my world, but the return of ZK into the world. Suddenly about two months ago, I started hearing everybody talk about it again. When we were down in Argentina, a lot of the talks were about that. Board meeting, people were all asking us what's your ZK strategy. You guys all of a sudden got really interested in the Zcash client that I had worked a bit on a couple of years ago. It looks like it's probably real right now because there are certain applications that are actually working. Although I won't say which, but I went to a bunch of talks in Argentina that clearly were vaporware. Maybe that's even generous, like things that didn't make sense to me. But there are a couple of applications and the scaling application that I guess will probably happen in Ethereum could be big. So it's kind of exciting. Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, if you look at the trend lines, it's crazy. I think last year to do a proof on the Ethereum blockchain testnet, it took a computer with like 48 GPUs. And then now it's down to four. So it's really accelerated. Yeah, I'm not sure why that's happening, but it does seem to be.

SPEAKER_02: I think many things are true at once on the why. This is speculation, but yeah. One, the EU came out and said, oh, you're gonna need a driver's license to use the internet. And this scared the crap out of everybody. And then we're like, we weren't taking the privacy thing. It's like, we just wanted to pump these prices, but like, are they going to— like, I'm going to need to put my fingerprint for my computer to turn on. No one has suggested that yet, but so the cypherpunk fundamentals kind of have come back into the focus as at least visibly governments seem to want to reassert or search control over the internet. And yeah, I think the privacy people were here in background. We went to the Cypherpunk Congress at the beginning of DevConnect. And clearly these people had just been there for 10 years and we kind of forgot about them and they're just still there. But as a— like the Zcash price went crazy. I think definitely some people were trying to find a way to rotate out of something into something else without making it look like they're selling the thing. And— but it's also I think— Yeah, maybe also post meme coins, there was sort of a value rediscovery going on, in that even the kind of more extractive crypto types seem to have some cypherpunk inclination. Not always. There's a lot of new entrants that are more like the Wall Street. But some mix of organic and manufactured got ended. Then the price action got everyone thinking about it again. One thing that occurred to me as I started researching privacy again, because we spent lots of time with it, both in our enterprise days and then subsequently, we were kind of trying to figure it out before mainnet launched, which is why Jim built most of the Zcash client. And then we kind of dropped it for a while. But part of the reason it came back for me is that it also seems more viable. There's a bunch of competing Ethereum ecosystem privacy products like Railgun, Privacy Pools, and so on. I guess Roman Storm was in the news a bunch during the year. Roman Storm of Tornado Cash, of course. I didn't realize that it maybe basically works and it sort of didn't— like Zcash also had added, they've got a mobile wallet now that supposedly just works. Yeah. And it's easy to shield. It wasn't easy to shield before. So some perfect storm of factors seem to reignite the privacy.

SPEAKER_01: I think part of it is just people realize, as maybe a new kind of mainstream adoption is taking place, people are realizing oh crap my balances are in fact public. Yeah. There's a wrench attack per week in 2025 something like that. Yeah. So I think— I do think the right thing about shielded balance is you don't have to protect everything, but you have to protect certain things, like how much you have. Okay, before we dive into our 2026 predictions, I want to announce our giveaway. Tying into Kieran's thing about metal prices are way up this year despite crypto, we want to take away some of the crypto down pain by doing a giveaway where we give away three of our silver tokens. So each silver token is equivalent to one ounce, SilveST. And to enter into this, it's a lucky draw. You have to put your Mercata address on our Telegram. And we will pull three lucky winners from all the addresses we get. And we will send them one SilveST equivalent to one ounce of silver. So hopefully that will be a nice holiday present for a couple of people. And we hope that you sign up as quickly as possible. Okay. With that, let's go to predictions. Jim, what are your predictions for 2026? Okay.

SPEAKER_03: My prediction is that this will be the year of usability. It has to be. There's so much riding on, there's so much good technology out there right now. And there's so much riding on who wins this. And so many of these products, which are based on something very solid, just can't be used. I won't call out names, but multiple times this year, Kieran might come to me and say, here's a really cool project, go use it. And then I would waste days and days just trying to do the most basic things with it. And I know how this stuff works internally.

SPEAKER_01: And you wrote the Zcash client. So if you can't do it, who can do it?

SPEAKER_03: So I think there's going to be a lot of pressure to make these things just work. And we've sort of hit a point where there's always stuff to add, but the basic stuff is out there and it works right now. So there's got to be a lot of competition. And we're going to be part of this for sure to make this stuff as easy to use for the end user and just work. Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Okay, I'm going to go second and leave you the last, Kieran. My prediction is this is the year of ZK scaling and institutional crypto adoption, but it's going to be slower than people think, at least from the adoption side. I say that because we have worked with a bunch of big enterprises and governments in our history. And even when they do some giant ass press release, it all moves at some glacial pace. So I think we're going to see some traction and making that more real, but it's going to move a hell of a lot slower than everyone on crypto Twitter thinks. But I do think, like I said, I think the first kind of shooter drop in the world of ZK is going to be around ZK scaling. And I think we're going to see huge improvements this year. So Kieran, what are your predictions? Bring us home.

SPEAKER_02: Okay so I predict and it's not unrelated to Jim's a continued DeFi TradFi soft merger where you'll see TradFi capabilities in DeFi you'll see TradFi using DeFi rails from stables and into more sophisticated stuff. Something remarkable in some ways— like Aave is like the federal funds rate of, the USDC borrow rate on Aave is kind of the benchmark for sort of low risk borrowing in crypto. And that's remarkable. Everything else in the world just instantly reacts to what the Fed does and maybe crypto does to the prices certainly do. But the stable borrowing markets, maybe it's a little bit indirect. And so I think we should see some level of continued boringness and that boringness is probably a good sign, even though we want good excitingness at different times. I think, yeah, so in that category, stables keep going up in supply and volume. RWAs continue to get bigger. We saw a big run starting the year in, let's see, like PAXG and others. Obviously, RWAs are way up in circulation as this year goes on. And part of the reason is just even the dollars don't— even dollars don't solve inflation in total. They might— it's much better if your option is like, or at least until recently probably still, the Argentinian peso to hold USDC let's say. But this year gold silver would have been better or treasuries are better than just dollars for instance. So I think, well, we just for practical reasons, you need— the world is priced in fiat at least for now and may continue to be. So you just need a mix of things, go along with your crypto, but also hold some other stuff so that day to day you're not in trouble. I also think related to Jim's point, the way I wrote it in my little notes here is that value capture will keep moving up the stack. So there was a time where what you did was write a 60-page technical white paper, maybe you were a professor or something, raise like $50 to $250 million on chain, build some complex blockchain. Sometimes they worked, sometimes they didn't. And there was an L1 premium and even an L2 premium, having control of the infrastructure makes the token go higher. I think there's still a little bit of that. And we ourselves are an alt L1 and in part it's just like you inherit a lot of— I mean, still a lot of the assets primarily are bridged in from Ethereum. That's the only real big source. And we have small integrations with Base and all that sort of thing. But I think the reason really we did it is to be able to deliver a better app on the top end. And so you'll see most of the value capture will start to be just fighting over users as opposed to more abstract infrastructure promises, throughput, cheaper transactions and so on. I think the market is mostly moving away from that. There are still some. But the Lighters, the Hyperliquids, Linea recently are fairly high in the stack. There's a big anchor app at a minimum for all of them. Perpdex, the wallet, various other apps on Linea. It's a short list of successful L1s, L2s. Polymarket is on Polygon I think that's a coincidence but it's kind of funny and that's the thing that really keeps the alt chains going. Of course you try to get implementations of all the major protocols on there. But yeah, so I agree with Jim it's about the usability but in a specific sense like we got to actually just get people to live their lives in this thing.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, the way I think of it is kind of adoption over research. I think when we started all the big new chains were effectively like research projects. They were big ideas and things that may or may never be delivered. And now, really, it's about deliver the whole thing before the TGE now. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Well, with that, thank you very much for joining us for our Year in Review recap. I'm Victor Wong. You can find us at strato.nexus. And we hope you have a happy holidays. And please sign up for our giveaway and enjoy some vitamin C and sunshine. At least Jim is. Take care.

SPEAKER_02: Thanks, everybody. Happy holidays. See you.