
UNKNOWN:
¶¶
so so
¶¶

SPEAKER_02:
What's going on everybody?
Alex, I sent you an invite to speak and co-host.
If you have any questions, just let me know.
You can DM me.
Good to see the faces piling in.
Got a lot of good questions here.
Can't wait to talk about just the rich history here.
Here.
There we go.
Alex, good to have you here, man.
Appreciate it.
If anybody else wants to come up later and ask any questions, just feel free to raise your hand.
Kind of.
Kind of a bit, like, under-watery.
Huh.
Is Victor out here?
No, Victor, okay.
Let me see.
Give us a few moments, guys, trying to set this up.
Appreciate your patience.
ah technology cartoons you want to come up i'll invite you even if you're just on the panel you don't got to speak you were here for episode zero so
How about you?
Got you, Mac.
I wish that my phone wasn't so dumb.
I'll DJ some stuff here instead of this silence.

SPEAKER_06:
You should sing, AG.

SPEAKER_02:
Who said that?
Alex?
Hey.

SPEAKER_06:
Hey.
You should play some live music.

SPEAKER_03:
I was playing some classical music, but yeah, I don't know.
It's good to have you on here.
I'm glad the mic's all working out now.
I really appreciate you jumping on.
It's been an interesting six months for sure.
Yeah.
So really, I just want to kind of just pick your brain a bit about the past, honestly, like more than just, you know, Miscoin in general, but really just like how you got all started with, you know, the Ethereum Foundation and whatnot.
So, like, when did you actually hear about Ethereum and what was your kind of first initial reaction to it?
Sure.

SPEAKER_06:
I have to say, my wife thinks it's hilarious that...
I'm old enough that my early work is being discovered by archaeologists now.
So I find it funny, a little bit weird, but it's fun.
So I think I started being interested in Bitcoin around 2012.
So that was
And it feels like a long time ago, it feels like the early days.
But for me, I already felt like, oh, God, I missed it.
They're already talking about Bitcoin on The Good Wife, on live TV.
I'm like, oh, no, but it used to be under a dollar.
Now it's like $10.
Damn, I so missed Bitcoin, right?
That's too bad.
I even remember I posted something on the forum saying, oh, no, I tried buying Bitcoin at $5.
It was so hard.
And then someone simply, I think, tipped me like five Bitcoin on Reddit saying, hey, here's your $5 worth of Bitcoin.
And it was back then, I don't know, probably a full Bitcoin, right?
Bitcoin was $5 back then.
So that was those early days.
Again, it didn't feel too early.
And then I started paying attention because I felt that I knew someone bigger would come for Bitcoin.
And I just started following all sorts of projects like ColoredCoin, MasterCoin, things like that.
until I found it here.
I was so blown away and captivated that I couldn't think of anything else.
People were still very active on the Reddit.
Vitalik would answer questions personally.
And then I just started helping out on the forum, on the Reddit.
I'm a designer, I'm not a coder, so I thought, hey, there are enough coders here.
Maybe the designer and then someone would ask something for a presentation I could give them.
And then by the time that the pre-sale rolled around, they started having cash, hiring people, and I was on the list.
So that's how I got...
I started working with some crazy people.

SPEAKER_03:
So you did not expect to be so heavily involved and become the pioneer that you did.
You were just kind of...

SPEAKER_06:
jumping in and you know interested in this new opportunity really you didn't expect it to blow up like this i certainly didn't expect it to like sort of yes and no because i felt that back then it was it seemed very obvious that he was going to be a big thing and i was like i'm i'm amazed that nobody else is paying attention to this i was like
I felt like telling everybody I knew, can't you see?
Look at this shit.
This is crazy.
It's like a blockchain with a computer inside.
And people were acting as if it was crazy.
I was a founder of a company back then.
I was doing an iPhone app.
There was sort of an Instagram with professionals and I had raised money.
The app wasn't going anywhere.
And I realized that I wasn't using any of my spare brain cells to think about my iPhone app.
I was just thinking about it all the time.
And then I told my friends that I wanted to leave this.
They were like, are you leaving the app?
you found it to work for a 19 year old they're going to pay you in like make up money that he invented i was like yeah sure that seems like a great idea yeah that that's uh that's crazy man that's honestly the i mean just your your your

SPEAKER_03:
Your belief in what this could turn out to ended up leading you to such success and being a pioneer in this space.
So when we talked before in the past, you told me you kind of helped assemble the Miss Wallet development team.
You explained you were part of the hiring and you brought Fabian on board.
How did you go about getting in touch with or finding Fabian to add to the team?
And what made you so confident in his abilities?

SPEAKER_06:
So when I started working, the first person I started talking about working with was Gavin Wood.
Gavin Wood was the one who sort of introduced me to the idea of making a browser.
I didn't
I would say that really the way I got to work was I downloaded what was the latest client, CPP, the C++ client.
And then it was called LF0.
And if you ever, you should try to Google how that looked like because it was, it felt like,
uh the command of an airbus like a lot of lots of small windows setting showing all sort of like buttons and things you had to push it was super complex but i still looked at it and say whoa this is like a fantastic app i wish it was simpler to use and i designed something which which was very similar to what the mist wallet looked like and then i was very proud showing that to to gav
and he he called me to have a skype call and then he told me look i i i thought i i had basically re-transformed the whole thing and he told me no i i think you you're not going far enough i think you're not thinking big enough about this i was like look i i took this thing that was weird and i made it something that looks usable it looks like a blockchain which were
Like that's what it is, right?
It's a blockchain, but instead of sending coins, you send contracts and you execute stuff.
And it was like, no.
this is going to be the foundation of a new web.
We are calling this web tree and it's good.
There's going to be a browser and there's going to be like client interfaces.
You're going to download it via Torrent or via or via Swarm.
You're going to talk to people directly via P2P.
It's going to be like it's going to replace the Internet browser as we know it.
It's going to be going to be better than Onion.
And it's it's
And now you're going to download apps.
Instead of downloading the apps for our server, you're going to be downloading it from your peers, from your friends.
So apps will never go online.
And I was like, wow, this is crazy.
I want to be a part of this.
And then I got into the Jeff team, right?
There was basically three teams in the early days of the foundation.
It was Vitalik, Jeff, and Gav.
Vitalik was doing...
was working in Python was mostly almost a research part in which was mostly interested in knowing if the thing worked.
And Gavin and Jeff really were doing the hard clients, one in Go Ethereum and the other in C++.
And when I joined the GAF team, I was like the third person to join the GAF team.
It was like Jeff,
felix victor tron which then became the head of swarm and then me right or something like that and i started trying to like build an interface on top of that and it was very hard it was very complicated and i asked jeff look jeff i think if you want to really build the wallet we need someone who can
has a lot of experience building apps on the web, right?
Something that you can use CSS, you can use custom JavaScript to build apps, not only to build the app itself, but to build the apps inside that.
And he was like, yep, I know just the guy.
There's this crazy guy that came up on a few websites
meetups, he was talking, very excited about Ethereum and we don't know what to do with him, but maybe he knows he can help.
And then that's how I started working with Fabian.
I called him and Ethereum, he was working for me, but I guess he never got the memo because he was like, he was bossing me around and giving orders and it was great, right?
The way it worked would be that I would often come up with an idea and then I would tell him, I think we should do this.
And he was like, no, I don't think that's going to work.
And then I was going to say, no, no, I think it is going to work.
And I modified my idea a little bit and then gave it back to him.
And then he came to me, I still don't think it is going to work.
We should do this instead.
And then at some point on the debate going back and forth, we would come to a very usable solution
that he was able to implement in a day.
He was very good at implementing stuff very quickly, and that made me very impressed by Fabian.
He was a fantastic coder.
He wrote the book on what was the standard of web development back then.
Back then, everybody was talking about Meteor, and he basically wrote a book on Meteor.
That was great working with him.

SPEAKER_03:
Wow, that's amazing.
I didn't realize he wrote a book.
He wrote the book, like a book before getting into Web3, just about regular Web2 development?

SPEAKER_06:
Yeah, he wrote a book on Web2 development.
Back then, everybody was using all sorts of...
JavaScript libraries to build web.
And I think that Meteor was the one thing that you used to, if you wanted to have like a single page application, like you wanted to have a web page that looks like an application, which is a standard today, every page looks like an application, but back then it was actually very hard to do.
And Meteor was a very popular library.
Fabian basically wrote a book on Meteor.
So he was very deep into that.

SPEAKER_02:
Wow, that's super interesting.

SPEAKER_03:
So whose idea was it to kind of make a fun little token to test the features and give it away to users on Reddit?
And why pick Reddit rather than Bitcoin Talk, which was what was predominantly used back then?
Yeah.

SPEAKER_06:
yeah just so here's the thing right we didn't use bitcoin talk at all we were using reddit because the reddit was we used two two main forums it was the forum.it.org which is which is doesn't exist anymore and there was reddit right that was the main form of communication and we think about bitcoin talk where people would launch new coins and projects but we were launching a new project of mine
So let's talk about tokens in the first place, right?
Where does the idea of making tokens come?
Well, that has always been there.
In fact, the first use of
I think one of the things that is on the white paper, one of the first things on the white paper is ETH can be used to do tokens.
And that became obvious because what was happening back then, it was
There was Bitcoin.
And then whenever someone wanted to launch, invented a new thing to build on top of it, they would launch a whole new token.
So they were like, oh, I want to do this blockchain thing, but I want to use it for storing names.
And then they launched a fork of Bitcoin called Namecoin.
And someone else thought, oh, you know what?
we should have property assets inside here.
We could, and then they launched Colored Coin, which was a whole new thing.
They tried to don't, at some point it was on top of Bitcoin, then it wasn't.
And then someone started doing, and then MasterCoin was like, oh no, I think what we should do is that
we should have an exchange inside so you you can send a coin or ask for exchange or send a token and basically every time anyone wanted to do something new they had to make a new opcode for master coin
And Vitalik was working with MasterCoin and Coronacoins back then.
And that's when he sort of realized that's very inefficient, the idea that you have to either release a whole new blockchain whenever someone else thinks about a new feature, or that you need to create a whole new upgrade to your blockchain.

SPEAKER_02:
I think you might have rugged there.

SPEAKER_03:
I can't hear you.
Is it just me, Matt?
Can you hear him?

SPEAKER_04:
No, it's awesome.
Sometimes it's hard to just face it.
It's pretty weird.
But I'll just do it a little bit to, like, you asked me if I'm not sure if that's good or not, so you can probably touch on this.
Is that good?
You know, the whole ability of using the super applications on the VM chains really do allow the ability to be able to take tokens out of the event.
there is no way to technically, there is no way to approve, you know, basic tokens.
So, you know, if you think about it, doing a swap and a lot of, you know, in our case, you know, can you go in and execute a transaction, or execute a function on a set of contracts to, you would need to do that execution and send ETH inside of the value of the transaction, which

UNKNOWN:
gets a lot of votes to you because you basically pass an element that's a zero from function to function to function.

SPEAKER_04:
And if you can't get the contract, well, yes, you can approve, and the contracts can pull the tokens out of the element.

UNKNOWN:
It also is very, very good for tracking the balance of change.

SPEAKER_04:
The balance of change, you know,
So it was pushing kind of thing.
I don't see Alex's back, but being ready to pull parents out instead of pushing them is a lot better for tracking our unfair identity charges.

SPEAKER_03:
All right, let's see.
All right, good.
I'm back.
All right, awesome.
Yeah, so I don't even know where you left off.

SPEAKER_06:
Let's talk about tokens.

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah, tokens.

SPEAKER_06:
Am I the only one who heard

SPEAKER_03:
who couldn't understand anything that max said because he was very distorted or yeah he was a bit distorted i don't know what's going on with that um okay so yeah so you were talking about uh like you know master coin and those types of projects and you had to like you know release a whole token and stuff i was just i was asking more about like who decided to just like
play with the Mist token and just like, oh, let's just give it away for free on Reddit.
Well, that's what I'm getting at, right?

SPEAKER_06:
So we knew tokens were important.
And then at some point, we decided, hey, we want to do a token release on Mist.
and i posted on reddit like hey let's talk about the coin standard let's talk about something there was a very interesting conversation out of that based on that conversation fabian wrote the wrote like the esc standard and when we released the
And then when we released the new Mist wallet, we wanted people to try out because there were no tokens on Ethereum.
There was nothing you could tokenize.
So we basically released two tokens.
One came with the wallet and was the unicorn thing.
Whenever you donated to the foundation, you got a unicorn.
And the other that we wanted people to be able to play with for free was just like something that Fabian created.
um literally for fun just using like the standard thing that they had and then just started giving away for on reddit just for people to try it out like nobody nobody gave a lot of thought about it it was just this is the best thing that we want to try out and want people to play around with of course yeah no i get it and in regards to the unicorn the unicorn token was like

SPEAKER_03:
Five, six months later though, right?
Yeah.
I mean, based on the contracts, I don't know if it was like, I didn't know.
I don't know if it was like talked about like internally, but not released until later.
But yeah, it was released in 2016, a couple months.
I think it was two or three months ago.
And I think unicorns are great too, but I mean, I can't, they're very hard to get a hold of.
So, yeah.

SPEAKER_06:
I mean, as you say, like, trust the timestamp, right?
I mean, I, like, if you were asking me, I wouldn't swear that we released both of them at the same time when we released the tokens on the wallet.
Maybe we hadn't, like,

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah, I don't think you did, but the thing is that Unicorn is actually like an ERC-20, quote-unquote, actually an ERC-20, because Myst is basically an ERC-20 besides the approved function.
So it was like, that's why if you go look at the Unicorns...
I'm pretty sure they have all of the ERC-20 standard implemented, whereas Myst is basically like the skeleton for it.
It's just missing a few parts, or one part, and then it would be considered a full ERC-20.
But Fabian considers it.
I think you had a good...
Outlook on exactly how it met the standard and besides the approval function.
But yeah, that's super, super interesting.
I was going to say, was there anyone else that kind of helped in –
whether it be just ideating or actually getting in there and coding, because I know you said you weren't really a coder, that kind of helped with figuring out this ERC-20 standard?
Or was it really just Fabian?
I know you mentioned Gavin Wood.
I didn't know if he was kind of in the coding side of things too, or was it really just Fabian when it comes to the actual coding part of it?

SPEAKER_06:
Well, we had a lot of feedback from the community in regards on how to build the tokens.
There were some projects that I think the guys from MakerDAO, I think Rune was already participating on that.
Rune from MakerDAO.
He was already saying, look, we have this project.
We already released a big number of tokens.
They were claiming about other tokens that they were working on, on that project that they had.
Of course, there was no standard for that.
And that's sort of why we wanted, yeah, sure, you release a token, but that doesn't mean that we need a standard so that everyone can release tokens and those tokens can exist on wallets and things like that.
But I think, so Fabian basically got the feedback from the whole community as a whole, like wrote the road standard and those things were very, it was a very participatory project, right?
So this writing a standard is,
by its design, something that you want to have the buy-in of the community, you want to have a lot of feedback so that everyone can at some point just agree on something, right?
So it's not something that you just come out and say, hey, this is how the foundation is going to do it.
No, you want to hear it and you want to make sure that everyone is following the standard.
Otherwise, it won't be a standard.
We'll be just a proprietary format.

SPEAKER_03:
Hmm.
Yeah, that kind of leads me into my next question is, did you believe ERC20 would kind of achieve this relevance and be as big as it is here 10 years later?
Or did you expect a better or newer standard to come around?

SPEAKER_06:
We knew the tokens were super important for Ethereum, right?
Back when we were working on the Mist wallet,
basically all other crypto wallets served for like every other, especially every other Ethereum wallet had one function in mind, which was you get the wallet, you got from the pre-sale, you get your Ether and you send it to exchange to sell, right?
Or you just bought something in an exchange and you send it to yourself.
That was the only reason that anyone would use a wallet.
And there were a lot of already other wallets back then.
And all of them were just that, right?
It was just a way for you to get your Ether back and sell it.
And we really wanted to fix that.
And we knew that if you wanted people to use Ethereum as we wanted, we need to create those functions.
We need to invent new cool stuff that people want to work.
And that's why it was really important for us to start working on tokens.
Like, did you expect the ERC20?
Here's something funny that I didn't expect.
So we really expect tokens themselves to be big.
I did not expect the word ERC20 to be so big, right?
To the point that
Bitcoin tokens are known as BRC20, which is sort of like laughable because it wasn't the 20 of anything, right?
20 doesn't mean tokens.
20 was just a random number that happened to be the order in which Fabian asked the questions.
And suddenly, BRC20 becomes the center.
I think that's
Hilarious.

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah, I mean, that's imitation.
It's a serious form of flattery.
Even though those BRC20s don't even have smart contracts or anything like that, it's a totally different kind of tech.
It just pays homage to the fact of how important the ERC20 was to the development of the tech.
You're a pioneer.
I mean, you, Fabian, everyone that was a part of this, you guys created something.
Even though the Miss Wallet went and sunsetted at some point, the mark you guys had on just cryptocurrency and blockchain in the world, it's honestly really nuts.
And it's crazy that you weren't even really expecting it to have that much...

SPEAKER_06:
let me say a little bit because you keep calling me a pioneer and how like how everything we did i think whenever you get a new community right you find that it's always like it's very few people working there right whenever when i got there there was probably less than 100 total people working on anything ethereum so anything you do if you if you start working on a project and then that project becomes big then
all those little marks that you do, of course, they also become big and they also create ripples and you can trace that ripple back to the persons that were there.
But the thing is, those ripples only matter because the project grew and the project grows because a lot of thousands of factors, right?
So I think the main, I would say that if someone
if someone thinks about it, wow, I don't...
But here's the cool thing, is that there's, at any point in history, there are thousands and millions of other projects that are happening or things that are happening which will eventually grow.
Like, we can look back and say, oh, this thing became big and therefore the people there were special because they were there.
But my point is, if you all, you guys are people who care about
like leaving ripples and things like that, my suggestion would be like just find projects that will allow, that will grow and allowing those ripples to be big, right?
I don't think it's the action of those pioneers are super important, et cetera.
It's just that we happen to be there and we did a work that I was proud of, but I think those opportunities are always coming, right?

SPEAKER_03:
No, yeah, I agree.
And it's just about building really at the end of the day and building in something you're passionate about.
But regardless of the fact you're a pioneer, a lot of people agree.
So maybe you weren't going into that with the mindset of, hey, I'm a pioneer.
You're just in there.
you know, building, you know, trying to do cool stuff, a part of something that you think had a lot of potential.
And that to me is, is a definition of a pioneer, whether you, whether you had that mindset going into it.
But I think we all appreciate you here and what you've done.

SPEAKER_06:
But that was my suggestion, right?
If anyone wants to own a part of history, the best way to do it is to invent it and is to help write it, right?
I think that is the beauty part.
So I really urge everyone who loves to look back at history is also to think that in 20 years, whatever you do now will be part of history, right?
So just try to think about where you want to be right now that probably can be something big in the future, because that's exciting.
And even if you bet on the wrong horse, just betting, just being able to build things that last and don't last is a great experience.
I built tons of things that were forgotten and didn't last and disappeared over the years before I stumbled into Ethereum.
And maybe the things I built into it here, I would say that almost all the projects I built were things that didn't last and they broke down.
But the building blocks that we sort of accidentally created to build those things became much bigger than the projects I was building, I ever expected to be.
Things like the tokens, things like ENS, things like the standards for
A lot of small things like the icons, the new color icons you see on Etherscan, those things were just a tiny feature for the wallet and they became big projects in themselves, much bigger than the wallet could ever be.
And I think that is super fun.

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah, I mean, you're motivating me right now to get out there and build.
I really appreciate it.
Yeah, everybody should really build.
I mean, at the end of the day, like you said, you might as well put a bet out there instead of not even jumping in the game.
I mean, who knows?
You could be one of those pioneers.
You could change the game, even though you're just building something that you know might not change the game, but at least you're in there actually trying to make a difference in something you're passionate about.
But yeah, no, that's great.
That kind of leads me to the question you were just mentioning some of it.
Outside of the creation of the ERC-20 and even ENS, what do you think...
was your greatest contribution in those early days.
I know there was the development of the things like the Web3JS library, the easy-to-use wallet interface, the blocky Identicon and CamelCase checksum.
I know those were a lot of great developments.
Is it one of those, or is it potentially something else that I didn't mention?

SPEAKER_06:
I...
So...
Something like I'm very proud of all of that.
Right.
But there's another very interesting project that I think what I did after the foundation is they started working on a project which I called Unilogin, which was another project that went nowhere.
But also a lot of the ideas where they are starting to come around.
And I think those would be super important.
Right.
And what I wanted to do on Unilogin was I wanted everyone to stop using private keys for their crypto, right?
I thought private keys was something that a user should never see.
And my point was,
I think that everyone should have a smart wallet and that a private key was something that your device created, never took out of the device.
And whenever you lost that device, you just replace it with another one.
And so I worked for two years on smart wallets and things like that.
Then at some point, we hit a wall in which creating a smart wallet would cost you $500 just to acquire a new user.
We had to close down the company.
But a lot of those, the idea that I spent like two years talking and going to and trying to share and trying to like, trying to talk about in conferences are now finally without you and things like that becoming real.
Because people are like,
Today, the word is account abstraction.
And I think it's still one of the most important things to happen if you wanted blockchains to go mainstream, would be for users never have to care about private keys again, where you just have a name.
and that then is connected to a couple of multiple devices and you basically use one device to allow you to use the other, right?
And I think we're probably reaching the moment where this will be able to be done, right?
Because we have not only cheaper L2s that allow you to have more wallets, it's easier for you to
deployers have already the address of a smart contract that can be deployed in all O2s at the same time.
We have Passkeys, which is a crypto standard that is accepted by Android and by Apple devices, which is really great logging in.
And I think that's something I'm very happy to see
grow on, on crypto.
Wow.
I am, I am proud of all the other achievements you, you said.

SPEAKER_03:
No, yeah, that's, that's actually really interesting because, um, I'm actually developing some stuff now and my developer constantly talks to me about how big account abstraction is going to be for this next, uh, bull run, you know, bull run and stuff like that.
And,
It's really fascinating to hear that you were actually working on something like this a few years ago, was it?

SPEAKER_06:
2018 was the first time I even talked about that.

SPEAKER_03:
I think you were just ahead of your time, to be honest.
Because it's huge when it comes to onboarding.
new like users quote unquote normies because like nobody wants to you know have to to store their private key and worry about all that nonsense and you were working on it back in 2018 it was just maybe the space hasn't matured wasn't mature enough then and it's obviously it wasn't to a point where now it is and damn that sucks i would really like to see uh maybe uh unilogin make a comeback

SPEAKER_06:
I'm pretty sure all the things that we wanted to function for will exist.
I'm very happy to see them because I think it's super important in order for apps to reach the mainstream that we want them to reach.

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah, no, that's great.
Taking it a little bit back to the beginning again, what was your guys' main challenges and considerations
when it came to the, the miss wallet and, uh, the early development of it, um, especially into relations to the fact that ether was so early and it was still evolving.
What do you guys, you know, what do you think about that?
What was your biggest, um, you know, uh, maybe challenges and considerations you took into place when you went building?

SPEAKER_06:
Oh, I think that,
I think that is an interesting question that comes to the heart of what made us do the Mist Wallet and why it was doomed and why it failed, right?
One of the things we really wanted was, like, we sort of wanted to reinvent the way the web would work, and we really wanted to make sure that every user of the Mist Wallet was also a full node, right?
With what going to be a full node on Ethereum, it was also going to be
a full node on Swarm, and every app there would be hosted on Swarm.
We didn't even want it to be for you to be able to connect to a traditional web, as you would call it.
We didn't even want you to be able to connect to our website.
The idea was that every app that you have to load, if you load an ENF name, and that is going to connect to a Swarm node,
And that is going to get you to download your app directly from other missed wallet users, right?
And also, you'll be running an Ethereum full node so that you're never dependent on anything, right?
I mean, we're very, like, let's say not very pragmatic about it because the reality was that it worked for a few years in 2014, 15, 2016, right?
wasn't still possible for you to run a full note in your desktop but the reality is that by 2017 on when one of the first really big major full run started happening it would already take like hours and hours for between downloading and actually having the the wallet worked and then almost and then like most people had already migrated by three of us which
Metamask is just instant, right?
You download it.
You don't need to download the new browser.
You already use the browser you like.
It connects directly to Etherscan, so you don't need to worry about a full node.
It connects directly to the web, so you don't need to worry about storing your web page or anything like that.
And in the end, that was, I think, one of the main reasons that
missed failed because we were sort of like, giving too much in a way where you wanted everyone to run a full load.
And like, we were ready, we wanted everyone to run a fully decentralized web.
And that wasn't possible back then.
And it's still not possible today.
And that is sort of how the whole project ended up with no users, we have to shut it down.
One of the main reasons.

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah, that was one of my questions towards the end.
I was going to ask why you guys actually decided to sunset.
But that makes sense because it is hard to get people to interact on that level.
You have to create a node and make sure the node is running correctly and everything.
That just kind of steers some of the less technical people away.

SPEAKER_06:
We were able to abstract a lot of that technical side of creating a node.
You didn't know you were creating a node.
You didn't know you were creating anything of that.
You were just uploading.
But the problem with trying to abstract a lot of things of design is that you can make a lot of things feel like magic and that's what we wanted to do.
But there's a point in which you hit a technical roadblock and
For most users, that was when we would tell them, look, it's going to take you five hours or six hours or maybe a full week before you can even use this app, right?
And there's no way to abstract anything about that, right?
I remember actually
spending hours and hours trying to work on the right load animation to make sure that that little bar would feel like it was loading faster than it was actually loading.
But then there's no design that can save you when the amount of time it's going to actually take is like a week, right?
The animation can look fancy and can have a lot of cute things, but it's going to take a week.
There's no...
There's no way around that, right?
There's no putting lipstick on that pig.

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah, I think Mac was talking about that earlier in the earlier space.
Mac, you can come up and say something if your mic sounds all right.

SPEAKER_02:
No, no, not going to say anything?
Okay, sounds good.
I'll go to my next question.

SPEAKER_01:
I got a question to ask.

SPEAKER_02:
Oh, okay.
Yeah, go ahead, brother.

SPEAKER_01:
Yeah.
How's everybody doing?

SPEAKER_02:
Good, good, good.
Glad to have you up here.

SPEAKER_01:
You know me as Magician, but you guys can just call me Mud.
I have a question for Alex.
I was going to ask, you actually answered another question I posted in the Telegram, which was, what was your biggest concern as far as on the development side of like how to get or onboard the next billion users?
And I think you kind of touched on it.
You said account abstraction, if I'm not mistaken.
Another question I wanted to ask was, what's your biggest lesson that you've learned on a personal level as far as finding that balance in between doing the work, like putting your head down and just enveloping yourself into your ideas and pushing them forward?
and working with a team like how uh what's your biggest lesson you've learned with you know trying to push forward an idea you believe in but also being receptive to other people's ideas and actually trying to find a way to make other people see your vision that is a great question because i think i've that is

SPEAKER_06:
That is how we work with a team, right?
I think the best work I've ever done was...
I've been working with remote teams for over 10 years, right?
Way before Zoom was a thing and way before COVID was a thing, we were remote teams, not because we wanted, but rather because...
there was no other way to get people from all over the world to work on a single project if you have to fly everyone to the same place, right?
And we had to work remotely.
And part of working, challenge of working remotely is that you have a lot of time for you alone to be working, like focus without anyone over your shoulder to check what you're doing.
But then you need to have
full conversations with people.
And those conversations, it's not about you pushing your idea and then, or accepting the idea of someone else and guessing who wins.
But it's really about trying to
trying to find a common place, right?
I think in those discussions, the idea gets better.
Often, often, often, the way it would work is, like I sort of mentioned, but I think it's interesting to reiterate, I would have an idea and Fabian would have a different idea and we would fight over this idea.
But on the argument, every time he would make an argument against my idea, I would come back and say, look,
Yeah, but if we change this, then that solves that.
And then he was, no, no, but if we change this other thing, my idea is better.
But on those arguments, what we were doing was actually hating each other idea and modifying it to a point in which at some point in the middle, we were like, yeah, I think that works.
and it was almost as if we were hitting beating each other's idea until it felt in the middle which was a much more strong idea and something much and that felt like you belong to both of us right it never felt at any moment that i was giving up on something that i really believed on or that i was forcing him to give up on his idea it felt like we were both
by debating it, we were both owning the thing and we were reaching something that was probably better than anything that we both could think of.
I think Steve Jobs uses a term which I think is fantastic, in which you have to have strong beliefs loosely held, meaning that you really should believe the things you
You must be very passionate about your own beliefs, but also be very, you should drop them very easily whenever you see something better come along, right?

SPEAKER_01:
That's interesting.
Thank you for the answer you gave.
You actually answered a few questions I had in mind.
I think that's very valuable information for anybody who's attempting to promote or push forward an idea, but also
trying to work in a team.
Yeah, for sure.
Yeah.

SPEAKER_06:
And thinking about it, it is important, right?
A lot of the work I did often as a designer,
was that I was just trying to communicate to the developers the things I was seeing that the users needed.
And sometimes I was trying to communicate to final users the thing that the developer wanted to build that couldn't be understood.
So as a designer, I felt I was constantly translating from those words, right?
I was looking at something that developers want to do this thing.
Nobody understands what it is.
I would translate it to like an end user.
And then I would like advocate for the end user saying, hey, this is how we are going to build this thing for them.
And I think being that person in between is super important.
And often what you do a lot is just you're trying to communicate and having convincing people that this is a good thing worth building.

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah, I appreciate that question, Mug, because even though it's a bit of a situation with me, but I'm dealing with the same thing when it comes to, you know, trying to find a healthy, positive, collaborative environment instead of like, you know, being at each other's neck and trying to figure out who's right or what's the best way to go.
Sometimes the collaborative, you know.
There needs to be a sense of positivity and realize that the end goal is the same for everybody.
How we get there is that's how you work together and figure out what's the best way to approach that problem.
It's tough to work with teams, especially remote.
You're not there to see people's reactions in person and judge body language.
It's tough at times.

SPEAKER_06:
Yeah, and you have to listen, right?
If you think that your ideas are pure beauty and genius and that everyone is trying to ruin it, you're probably not a very good team member and probably your ideas aren't that great, right?
You have to have humility and understand that other people also have good ideas on how to improve your thing.

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah, I mean, and nowadays with this culture, I mean, some of these crypto Twitter people and stuff like that, there's a lot of arrogance that everybody thinks they know it all.
And if you can't take a step back and see that you don't know it all and you never will know it all,
you know, you're better off as a team because you guys connect, you know, you can actually take that receptive, you know, that criticism and take those other ideas and, and mesh it into one, like you were saying.
And now it's not just one idea.
It's everybody's idea.
And, you know, everybody put in the time or effort and now they, you know, all feel kind of, you know, emotionally or connected to that idea, you know?
Yeah, no, that was a great question, Mud, especially as I'm dealing with that stuff on my own building.
It's really nice to hear something like that.
Can you hear me now?

SPEAKER_06:
I think we have time for one last question.

SPEAKER_03:
Okay, one last question.
Can you hear me now?
Yeah, yeah, we can hear you.
Do you want to ask the final question?
Go ahead, go ahead.

SPEAKER_05:
I'll be just quick.
So I think you mentioned, Alex, that there was a lot of attempts to do essentially on-chain wallets and stuff.
I know that the ETH Swarm team was working quite early on, like Daniel Meiji and some other guys like Ido Shadran on an on-chain wallet called GetLoginETH.
have you were you familiar with that one it wasn't that that early but um it was it was something that i that i also came across and did a little bit of work on probably two years ago and second small question um the parity wallet came out just after missed wallets was that in an attempt to solve the issue with the sinking of the whole mode because i remember that that one uh there was you know statements that they would try and run that on like a light client and only you know sync

SPEAKER_06:
portion of the of the of the chain so i work with daniel nagy if that's the same person he he was also on the swarm yeah yeah i don't remember his work on on on login that's interesting not sure you're not sure what you mean by like on-chain wallet uh the parity like client thing i like since i was working with you and they were always like claims that
Like, yeah, this light client sync or this new light client sync is going to be the one that solves all light clients' problems, right?
We tried a lot of them, and I think I still don't think there's...
And I still don't think there's, to this day, a very good way to really have a fully decentralized light client that can just connect to it, right?
First of all, because it's hard to do it, and often, and that's even sadder, is that often the user doesn't really care.
That's also a big problem, always.
Often the user...
If you say, look, it's instead of taking like one gigabyte, 10 gigabytes, this thing is going to give a stick a hundred megabytes.
And the user is like, why do I want to like use this to a hundred megabytes?
If I can just connect to either scan or like whatever.
And then that's, that's never good enough for the user.
So yeah, user, the user didn't care is.
an epitaph for a thousand decentralized projects everywhere.

SPEAKER_05:
Awesome.
Thank you for answering that.
I tagged you in the comment with the repo that I was talking about.
And yes, it was Daniel Neji from EthSwarm.
I did a bit of work with them two years ago.

SPEAKER_03:
Alex, I got one question for you, just so you have time to plug what you're working on.
I saw that you're working on a new project called The High Order Company.
Can you explain to us a bit about what that is, what the goals is, and just talk about what you're currently working on?
After that, I just appreciate your time and stuff.

SPEAKER_06:
Sure.
I am working...
Both are on two fronts.
I am working a lot of ENS on meta governance for ENS and for DAOs in general.
I think it's super important to think about governance.
And I still think that one of the main impacts that blockchain can do today is to have decentralized companies or organizations where all the funds are trackable and everything is transparent.
And I'm very proud to see that ENS is, I would say, one of the best examples of that.
And the second thing I work a lot, I mean, working on is I'm one of the smartest people I've worked with during my time on the German Foundation.
I'm not saying a lot because I did work with a lot of smart people.
Was a guy named Victor Thielen.
Victor Maia then, he goes by Victor Thielen right now.
And he worked on the Mist wallet.
And he was like, I would often ask him to do a task.
Hey, can you just integrate this library with Swarm for a bit?
And he was like, three days later, he was, yeah, the work is done.
But I need some more time because I found an upstream bug on the library.
And then three days later, he was, yeah, I fixed the library.
But I think the library is having the wrong approach.
Give me a few days.
I'm going to make a new library for that.
And then I gave him a few days more, and he was like, you know, I've created a new library, but I think the real problem is that Myth is using the wrong thing.
We should really refactor Myth as a whole to do this thing.
And at some point, I joked to him, look, Victor, I can't give you more time.
I know that if you just have all the time in the world, it would just...
want to build the whole fucking new computer.
And he was like, yeah, you're right.
Well, guess what?
Victor has all the time in the world now, and he's actually building a new computer.
And he just figured out a way to, like, he's been studying, like, computer science, like, history, and he found a way to create virtual computers that are much more parallel.
can execute faster and a lot of things like that and I think it is fantastic and it's one of those things that is very hard to communicate what they are doing but I think they are doing something that is going to be big which is why I like working with them because part of what I work there is just trying to explain people what they are doing and I think
And we are working on a new website.
It's going to be very cool.
You're going to be able to see some animations.
But in essence, we are all using Turing machines.
And he's like, look, Turing machines are wrong.
There are better ways to do it.
Instead of having this like concept of a Turing machine, which is like a little robot with infinite tape that goes back and forth and changes the tapes from zero to one, he's able to turn any sort of computation and basically like a planner graph with a thousand lines.
And those lines have like four little commands that they can do.
And they can do it all at the same time.
So you can do it, you can run it in a 16 cores at the same time.
And it just becomes a very easy way to transform any computation, something that is multi core all the time.
So yeah, you should, if you think this sounds interesting, you should definitely follow the HVM page.

SPEAKER_03:
How do I profit?
How do I invest in this?

SPEAKER_06:
Well, you should follow us.
If you want to be a pioneer yourself, maybe you can participate on that somehow, right?

SPEAKER_03:
I would like to be a pioneer like you, Alex.
I really would.
Is that the High Order Company or is that something else?
Yeah, definitely.
Okay, I'm definitely going to check that out and do some research on it because that sounds amazing.
It sounds like the guy you got on board is definitely...
one of those genius pioneers that you don't come across very often.

SPEAKER_06:
Yeah, you should definitely follow him.

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah, I'm going to look into that.
I wholeheartedly really appreciate you, Alex, jumping on here.
Maybe we could do it again sometimes because I still have like 20 other questions I want to ask you.
And I know there's other people here too that wanted to come up, but it's been about an hour and I don't want to take too much of your time.
So thank you so much.
And I really, truly do appreciate it.

SPEAKER_06:
Well, thank you for the invitation, and it was fun to have this conversation.

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah, man.
Have a good day.
We'll probably stay on for a little bit and chat it up, so you're more than welcome to go head out and do whatever you got to do.
Thanks, man.
Thank you, everyone.
Have a good one.
Bye.

SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, that's great.
That was great.
How much longer are you going to stay on?

SPEAKER_03:
I don't know.
I was just kind of letting him dip out to see what everybody thought.
I thought that was really super informative.

SPEAKER_01:
Hey, nice job, bro.
Yeah, you really held it down.
Good job.

SPEAKER_03:
I mean, I had a whole list of stuff I wanted to make sure I asked him, and I only got through like half of it.
I would have been out here for another hour, but I appreciate it.
Yeah, nonetheless, bro.
Nonetheless.
Yeah, no, yeah, that was, it was really good.
Um, I want to do this every Monday.
So, um, yeah, I'm in, in the chat as a ascension guide.
So if I was thinking about making a little bit of a, um, like a telegram group.
So if anybody wants to, you know, shoot me a PM, my PMs are open, um, you know, which is not the smartest thing to do, but my PMs are open.
So shoot me a PM.
Like I could get, you know, whoever wants to, you know, jump on here and,
or maybe have some topics that they have and they want for the next Miss Monday.
I want to do this every Monday.
I want to start building the community to get to a point where we're having people actually engage rather than just waiting for a number go up, which is great and stuff, and I love Missed.
But I think there's a lot of opportunity here when it comes to community building or even just building in general.
This is the oldest ERC-20, the first ERC-20 in all of Ethereum.
There's a lot of cool things that we could do with this.
We just need to make that community a bit tight-knitted and have a little bit more than just financial incentives, which I all know we're here to watch the number go up.
Number go up, bro.
Yeah, that's it.
Number go up.
But it's actually fun, man.
It's fun developing.
I was, you know, me and Victor, who leads the Discord and runs the social media, we were here since October, and we kind of pushed to get missed, like, you know, the liquidity sufficient enough to start getting people to be able to buy and take part.
And
It's been a crazy journey, man, about a lot of ups and downs.

SPEAKER_01:
Yo, about that.
About that.
I don't mean to cut you off, but you put a point about the liquidity.
So I saw that NIST is on base now, which is amazing.
I think that's a great opportunity for new users to get some exposure.
Is it bridged or is it just a...
I think there's like... Is it probably bridge?

SPEAKER_03:
It's bridge, but the liquidity is very, very small because a lot of people haven't really bridged over.
So what we were planning to do is what I was going to talk to Alex about, but we didn't get enough time, is there was actually a Doge ETH bridge that Ethereum was planning back in like 2017.
And there was 50,000 missed, valued at about a million dollars.
that were sent to this Doge kind of bounty, because it was a bounty.
So it was like, whoever can make a bridge between Doge and Eeth, you have a bounty.
And it was like a shit ton of Eeth.
And the mist was kind of just thrown in there as, I don't know, a joke or something.
I don't know.
That's what I was going to ask him about.
I was like, who kind of thought about sending that?
So there's actually...
some crazy signers on there, like Alex, I don't know, I think Fabian, but Vitalik is on there as a signer.
Like,
There's a lot of big names on there as signers.
If we could somehow get the attention of enough signers to go ahead and unlock that 50K miscoin, we could have...
Okay, here's Victor.
Hold on one second.
We could have potentially enough to bridge over the base, maybe do a little bit of like a DAO incentive things because there is a DAO for miscoin that I set up via Snapshot.
and then go ahead and maybe pay out some developers for building cool things on top of this.
That $50K would be very, very valuable if we could somehow snatch it up.
What's going on, Victor?
Oh, yeah, my bad.

SPEAKER_00:
Yes, first of all, congratulations for this initiative.
I think that's great.
Please keep it up because I think that this Monday is something that we need to keep.
And secondly, about the liquidity in base, just remember guys that Uniswap pools are permissionless, so everybody is free to pool their own liquidity.
And at the end of the day, I mean, if everybody
let's say, pulls like a 10% of their holdings of mist or 5% or just a teeny amount.
At the end, the liquidity there will be more healthy and we will progressively be building more liquidity in base.
I mean, maybe now we don't have too much volume there because the liquidity is tiny, so nobody will be interested in trading there now.
But it's something like progressively, the more people pulling liquidity there, the more volume we will have there.
I think that we will have more exposure there eventually.
So I think that maybe waiting for releasing these tokens of DogeDAO, maybe it will take time.
So maybe we can do this community effort of providing some liquidity by ourselves.
Well, you know, the gas fees now in the mainnet are very low.
So, well, I think that everybody can afford to do a swap in mainnet because, well, the way this morning, I guess, was in seven, six points or something like that.
So it's not too expensive.

SPEAKER_05:
you know who created the the base side um the bayside miscoin uh essentially the the bridge

SPEAKER_00:
Yeah, it's me, but well, there is a tool in BASE called BASE Migrate, so everybody is free to do that.
It's very simple.
It's just two or three steps, and you have a tutorial developed by the BASE guys, so everybody is free to do the same with any Ethereum mainnet token.
It just takes 30 minutes to do the whole process, and later on, five, six days to have the pull request in GitHub approved.

SPEAKER_05:
Yeah, I actually was speaking on the earlier space.
I was saying how base is really, really popping off and how L2s have made it really, really easy for, I mean, lots of different use cases.
But surely we don't need liquidity
We only need liquidity of missed tokens if they want to bridge back from base to Ethereum.
It depends on how the bridge is set up, but if you're bridging from Ethereum mainnet to base, you essentially are minting a new token on the base side.
in that way you can basically it's it's ready for you so anybody who wants to bridge from ethereum just bridges it admits the new token on base but obviously bridging it back from from base to to ethereum would require more liquidity yeah i think it locks up it locks up that mist and that's why it's only one specific bridge i don't think there's multiple bridges so

SPEAKER_03:
If you lock your Mist in that contract, it mints the base token, and then you put that base back in there and it unlocks the Mist, whatever amount it was and stuff like that.
So, yeah, the supply can only be as high as how many people locked up in that initial ETH bridge.

SPEAKER_05:
Yeah, so the liquidity is just there.
We want liquidity just in case we want to bridge back from base.
So anybody who has Mist, you can just go ahead and bridge across it.

SPEAKER_00:
Yes, I was referring just to the liquidity in Uniswap, just in case you want to do some swaps from Ethereum in base to Mist in base.
Just that, as I was saying, I mean, you don't need liquidity in both sides to make the bridge work in such a way that once you bridge one token from mainnet to the base side, I mean, it's like frozen, it's like locked.

SPEAKER_05:
Yeah, I mean...
We need more liquidity providers, is what you're saying.

SPEAKER_01:
Okay, I have a suggestion, right?
What does everybody think about maybe, because, you know, there's like meme mania right now.
And people are throwing their money at all types of, I mean, pretty much bullshit, right?

SPEAKER_02:
Mm-hmm.

SPEAKER_01:
And this narrative that we're looking at right now, we're dealing with is pretty much like, I mean, it sells itself.
I'm just speaking from an investor standpoint, right?
So if liquidity is the goal, what does everybody think about maybe us ourselves instead of waiting for the, like the Doge unlocking that 50K, that'll be good.
But instead of like waiting or while we wait on that,
I mean, something that we could maybe possibly do if everybody's up for it.
Maybe we could start, I don't know, maybe our own token or something, deploy it.
Some of us add some liquidity to that, get it up off the ground.
But X-Token has the sole and explicit purpose of, I don't know, maybe bringing more attention to Myst itself and the Relic meta itself.
And maybe, I don't know, a portion of...
fees generated or money made can go towards explicitly to providing liquidity to the pool

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah.
I mean, it's interesting.

SPEAKER_01:
I mean, I think a lot of... You know, just something, because, you know, we can take advantage of the fact that there's so many people, especially on this new chain, because, like, bass, that are just buying whatever the hell.
This is actually...
I mean, just...
I don't know how the mechanics would work, but essentially, that's how, like, the experience would go.
Like, we're all in on it.
We know what's up.
We're already...
doing what we can.
I see a few of us are already like, you know, reposting stuff and posting memes and doing what we can to like, you know, get it out there and get attention and market it.
And that's like amazing.
But just an idea, you know, just so we can get some, like, new money in and we can actually use that for something.
And as a community, we all agree.
You know what I mean?
Full transparency, no rug bullshit.
I don't know.
Just something.
Maybe it sounds gimmicky, but I don't know.
Sometimes gimmicks work and, you know, people always want to put their money in things.
So that's just where my head was at.

SPEAKER_05:
I would just caution against creating a new token willy-nilly because, you know...
lot of people forget there's a lot of legal things that come into it you know so like you you could kind of say you're just splintering liquidity yes no no not just that it's regulation right so if if
you know, to launch a, to launch a token, like the proper way you have to make sure that like you, you know, understand the legalities in different jurisdictions, um, because, and a lot of people just don't do this cause they're like, whatever, you know, but you know, it can really come and bite your back in the ass if you know, like, Hey, you launched a token.
And then, you know, the SEC comes knocking or, you know, and remember, you're opening up yourself up to every single jurisdiction because it's the blockchain.
Unless you actually say you can't trade this token in these jurisdictions.
Like, you know, certain platforms you can't.
As an American, you can't use it.

SPEAKER_01:
I see where you're going with it.
I see where you're going.
And that's definitely something that would be at the forefront is the legality of it.
Because, you know, nobody really has time to deal with that.

SPEAKER_03:
What I was thinking is... Not doing it properly, I should say.
If we could, I mean, I kind of am starting this with my blockchain historical society and stuff.
trying to get our hands on old relics and then potentially using those as like a reward system for supplying liquidity or something like that.
Like there's a lot of different ways we can go about it and still kind of not launch our own token, but find a way to reward those that add liquidity or there's a lot of different ways about things.
And I've actually reached out to some people and yeah,
got a hold of via just really digging into the blockchain and of some old developers that were launching tokens and stuff like that.

SPEAKER_01:
So it could be NFT.

SPEAKER_03:
It could, it could be a lot of different things for, um, my buddy of mine, uh,
His name is like T. Scurver or something like that on Twitter.
And he he wrapped a bunch of X copy NFTs into ERC 20 tokens.
And they're pretty.
Yeah, they're pretty big.
He's a he's I mean, his last time I checked his the market cap was like, you know, anywhere between like five to 10 mil.
And it's just, he just wrapped old or not old, but art from X copy in it.
And just because X copy is like a historical artist that has a big following, like it makes it easier to trade it rather than like an NFT and stuff.
So.
Fractional.

SPEAKER_01:
Like somebody could get a fractional amount of that.

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah, they could.
I think, yeah, I think you can as well, but they're like.

SPEAKER_01:
That I feel like people in the community would really bite and go for just because it has to do with like mist.
So like,
The legality thing of like an actual token, I agree with that.
But something, just anything that could, something that could like people who are already invested in this can feel like, you know, they're a part of something or they had got exclusive access to something because they're a holder.
You know what I mean?
Which starts there.
And then from there we build out.
Yeah, no.
More liquidity, attention and liquidity, education.

SPEAKER_03:
Well, I think a good way to be able to rep that you own missed could be smart, whether it be a PFP or something like that.

SPEAKER_01:
Like how you guys were talking about those badges earlier.
Yeah.
Back in the day, badges.
Same thing with like the dude from Bankless, like with the Pope, you know, the POAP.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Like that.
You know what I'm saying?
Like something similar.
And that could have a whole bunch of that could open up a whole bunch of other, you know, doors to that could lead back to the thing you were talking about of the Tao or society about the relics and, you know, collecting and stuff like that leads back to one another.

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah, I think there's a huge, huge market for these relics and stuff.
And I'm not going to go through and shill any relics or anything like that.
But there's a huge... With any market, even video games and stuff, people are paying top dollar for...
the old early video games, you know, the ones that came out, some of the first ones, like you have, you have some of those in mint condition, you know, people are spending tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of dollars for some of those things.
You know, why does, why is crypto any different?
Especially in the fact of crypto is like one year in crypto is like 10 years, you know, like that's how fast it, it kind of moves.
Um,
So I really see a huge opportunity in these early tokens, these early NFTs.
I think like a PFP or something, which is something that I was kind of working on for Myst, or another token that I was going to move over to Myst.
The only thing is I kind of wanted to do it for free, or you locked up
x amount of mist and you got your token you got an nft if you didn't want your nft anymore you burned it and you got your mist back um but it could be we could do a certain percentage or fee just to build up um a little bit of whether it be a treasury or some liquidity to move over to base because um seeding base liquidity would be
Really, really great.
That was my main point.

SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, we should do that.
That was like the crux of what I was getting at, really.

SPEAKER_03:
It just needs to be tasteful because you don't want to dilute what we have here.
Whether Myst has liquidity on base or not, in my opinion, this is not financial advice, it doesn't matter.
At some point, Myst is going to come across the right eyes and this thing is going to blow the fuck up.
Now, it would be nice to have, you know, nice liquidity on two chains just to give other people options.
You know, ETH will be at some point.
It is hot right now.
Unusable, you know, at some point.
Not unusable, but very expensive to use on and that will drive a lot of people away.
So it would be nice to get, you know, another chain functional with, you know, cheaper gas.
And people like ETH.
People love it.
Yeah, no, base is – I have some questions about base on, you know, some things they said.
Like, you know, if something did go down, I think they would bend the knee to the SEC.
And if you don't fucking give up your information, you won't be able to bridge out or something like that.
It's always a possibility.

SPEAKER_01:
Yeah, I see him handing out Wells notices and stuff.
Like, I've been seeing that.
I don't even know what that is, but it's probably like – A Wells notice?
Yeah.
Oh, it's just pretty much like, in layman's terms, it's kind of like a forewarning or like a chance.
That's like what the SEC gives companies.
Like, hey, just a heads up.
We figure you're doing something that falls out of bounds of the law.

SPEAKER_05:
Yeah.

SPEAKER_01:
and this is your chance or this is your like uh acknowledgement this is your chance to realize we're on you pretty much or like something's coming what is it it's not an official charge it's just kind of like a notice yeah they're essentially saying they're saying that you know we are coming we are going to take you to court for x and x for x and y and you should stop

SPEAKER_05:
preparing your defense, right?
Prepare yourself.
Yeah.
So it's intent to prosecute.

SPEAKER_01:
Robin Hood, I've seen it with some other exchanges.
So what you just said about base, yes, that is also something that we should think about, you know,
focusing in too much of our eggs in that base basket.
I just figured base because only because of the popularity, but yes, that is also a concern that I think about as well.

SPEAKER_05:
I mean, base is pretty safe purely because it is Coinbase and Coinbase has actually gone through the rigmarole with the SEC.
I think that it's, it could be, there could be more right now, but it's like Coinbase is like the only one that's is, is like backed, like,
it's it's fair that it's insured essentially um so they went through that whole process which is which is good um but yeah i mean if you didn't know joe lubin from consensus is actually taking the sec to court because of all this all these wells notices to to different companies like like you need to see that yeah it's great what's wrong gary didn't get
you know didn't get the job at binance so now he's all salty and just so throwing notices at everybody looking uh i have no i have no idea they're going off the meta mask they're going they they're going back on all the wallets it's like they're trying to just it's like operation choke point we're still in it yeah they're basically they're basically trying to now say hey
you know, if is a security, even though they've gone through like the same people who are saying that it's not a security have actually like,
know stated that it is a a uh what do you call it commodity in the past they're trying to say that metamask and other wallets are uh broker broker uh what's it called a broker broker dealers yeah which is absolutely insane they're kind of just the terminology for broker dealer is just um not good enough yeah i think everybody should go look that up right now yeah yeah
they're basically hanging off the definition of facilitation.
So they're saying, oh, but it facilitates.
But the fact is it's an application, and it can't execute without you pushing a button.
So in the same sense that they're calling it's a facilitator, you can say that, oh, OK, cool.
Well, Apple and Windows and Microsoft
should also be in this in this you know what do you call it court case because they're also facilitating these things they're facilitating in the same way that metamask is yeah i wouldn't worry about i wouldn't worry about like uh you know regulations for uh a token like a bridge token because
The onus is that the origin is the Myst.
And none of us here are the creator of Myst.
And that would basically just be like opening up
making a case against a token that has already gone through the rigmarole so you know i don't think we worry about a wild precedent yeah every single bridge token would also need to then doubly kind of like prove itself which is which is ridiculous um but i like the idea of um
of an extra kind of almost like a marketing campaign, like an onboarding campaign.
I'm going to also think about it and chat to you, AC.

SPEAKER_01:
I think we have the power to do it with the amount of people that are already interested in Myst because of just the whole relic meta thing.
It's not just about price go up.
I think the biggest thing that attracted me to it was just not the marketability of Myst itself due to the provenance and the history and the associations.
how I'm literally in real time seeing OGs, like ETH OGs, like, you know, kind of like double back, like, cause it's like, it's kind of like, it's like a call back to like original, the community, you know, before, before the 2021 blow off top, before meme coin mania, before Solana, before all that shit, like the OG feel like how it was back in the day, like,
people have something that they can actually call back to.
Literally, it's called a callback in writing or if anybody writes screenplays or anything like that or has anything to do with entertainment, a callback is kind of like, or like in a joke, a callback is like, you know, you're literally referring back to something
something else that was said i feel like mist is kind of like a call back to a time you know what i mean like a vibe on ethereum that people can actually see that that's the timestamp thing it's super super super smart i don't know who came up with that but that's really good that's that's that's really good even even uh even it embodies what i'm what i'm trying to get across even alex said that and alex is like alex is like

SPEAKER_03:
like i'm not fighting or anything like that but alex is like he's still kind of like just blown back at what mist has become he did not expect it to get to this point which is fine you know he was just building and he ended up building something great you're trying to give him the flowers bro and he was like no no he's he's just a he's what he is he's just like a humble he's just a builder yeah he's a good guy i've had a couple like
conversations with him outside of the space.
He wants to build and make good things.
The whole unicorn, that's one token I will talk about because he brought it up.
The unicorn token is super cool.
Really, really super cool.
But it's impossible to get your hands on.
That would be potentially something that would be really, really cool to give as a reward or something if you locked up some mist.
But it's impossible.
They're so...

SPEAKER_01:
I like where you're going with that, though, like stuff like that, you know?

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah, I think that falls in the line.
And then also it kind of gives us a bit of leeway when it comes to litigation because we didn't start these tokens.
We're just...
giving them out.
You know what I'm saying?
Like we didn't actually, you know, launch these tokens.
So if we were able to get our hands on some of them and just like give them out for free, not even necessarily like set a value behind it or anything, or, you know, even make a liquidity pool, it's still like, you're getting these old, you know, relic tokens, you know, at some point somebody would probably make a pool and do a whole bunch of stuff and start an initiative and grow a community just like we did with mist.
You know, like, that's what's fucking great about this is, like, anybody could step up and do anything for whatever token it may be, whether it be an actual token that's a relic or something that was innovative of the time.
Maybe it's not 2017.
Maybe it's not 2018.
Or, you know, maybe it's 2019.
Maybe it's 2020.
Like, that's still, like, you know, four or five years ago.
Like, the space was much different then than it is now.
I mean, look at Uniswap came around in 2020, and that was one of the, you know,
probably one of the greatest crypto-related tech advancements of our time.
The fact that liquidity pools could be made and anybody could trade any token and doesn't really need much liquidity behind it, that was huge.
And that was just created in 2020.
If you really think about it, we are still so early in the tech development, in the days of the tech development, how far that we can go.
at some point with account abstraction, you're going to get to a point where you're using crypto and you're not even using it and you don't even know you're using it.
And that's when we're going to see the normies, normal people start to get involved and they're not even going to know that they're using crypto.
But on the back end,
they are.
And then that's when you're going to see the explosion.
That's when you're going to see Bitcoin hitting half a million, a million dollars because the adoption is there, you know?

SPEAKER_01:
I mean, is this turning into now?

SPEAKER_05:
There was, there was bankroll and zero X protocol in 2017.
So, I mean, there were on chain, you know,
swapping facilities for a long time, but Uniswap just... Don't FUD me, dude.
I'm not FUDing.
What I'm saying is that Uniswap just did it really, really well.
You know what I mean?
They really did a great job, and one thing that they did was they had their code open source.
They also, what do you call it?
They iterated really, really quickly with V2.
They, you know,
They really did something that was quite different.

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah, they innovated.
Yeah, 100%.
Yeah, for sure.
Yeah, I'm excited about Uniswap v4, too, with the whole hooks thing and everything.
I was thinking about how to build on top of the hooks.
I'm not a developer.
I just kind of think of things in development ways and try to figure out a way to make cool stuff.
But Uniswap, they did their thing for sure, and they definitely changed the game.
0x had liquidity pools like that?
I thought they just had straight-up DEXs.

SPEAKER_05:
Bank 1, 0x.
They, I think, in the early days, I think 0x did have...

SPEAKER_03:
I don't know, dude.
I think Uniswap made the LP.
I think Uniswap came up with the LP idea.
Yeah, you might be right, but... Because I remember trading on, like, DDEX, which was, they used 0x, I'm pretty sure.
And that was, like, 2019.
That was, like, when all the fucking burn tokens came out, which I think,
there's actually potentially some opportunity there and stuff, some deflationary tokens with this whole inflationary shit going on.
But yeah, no, it's been a crazy past.
I've been in the game for like eight, nine years, so it's crazy to see how far it's came.
But I think that if anybody is interested and wants to make a Telegram group, just please message me.
on Telegram at Ascension Guide.
I'm in the chat all the time and posting stuff.
So just please shoot me a PM and I'll make a Miss Mondays private Telegram where we could talk about potentially topics or maybe special guests or what we could do.
And I really think that
this Miss Mondays could be built up to a really, you know, to have a lot of, a lot of listeners in the futures and especially the way as, as Miss coin grows and gets more people in front of it.
Like this is the, this is the space to come and talk and shoot the shit, you know, potentially bring on other partners or whatever it may be.
And, you know, just continue to grow this relic space.
Cause the, the more that the relic space grows, you know, the bigger opportunity it is for missed.
So,
I'm probably going to wrap it up there, guys.
Anybody that wants to shoot me a PM, you're more than welcome.
I appreciate everybody jumping on.
I think Alex had a lot of great things to say.
Yeah, I'm excited for the future.

SPEAKER_01:
Appreciate you, man.

SPEAKER_03:
Thanks for your time, bro.
Yeah, for sure.
I'll see you guys potentially next Monday.
I want to do this every Monday, but at the very least, like every couple Mondays.
So I'll keep everybody posted in the chat, in the Miss Telegram, and we'll talk there.
Thanks, everybody.
