SPEAKER_00:
What's going on, everybody?
Alex, I, sent you a invite to speak
and cohost.
If you have any questions, just let me know. You can DM me.
Good to see the faces piling in.
Got a lot of good questions here. Can't wait to talk about just the rich history here.
Here.
There we go.
Alex, good to have you here, man. Appreciate it.
If anybody else wants to come up later and ask any questions,
just feel free to raise your hand.

SPEAKER_01:
Kinda.
Kinda a bit, like, underwater.

SPEAKER_00:
Is Victor out here? No. Victor. Okay.
Let me see.
Just give us a few moments moments, guys, trying to set this up. Appreciate your patience.
Technology.
Cartoons, you wanna come up?
I'll invite you.
Even if you're just on a panel, you don't gotta speak.
You are here for episode zero. So
But you
got you, Mac.
Wishing my phone wasn't so dumb. I'd DJ some stuff here instead of this silence.

SPEAKER_02:
You should sing, AG.

SPEAKER_00:
Who's who said that? Alex? Hey.

SPEAKER_02:
Hey. You should you should play some live music.

SPEAKER_01:
I I I was playing some classical music, but,
yeah, I don't know. It's it's good to have you on here. I'm glad the mic's all working out now. I really appreciate you jumping on.
It's been an interesting six months for sure.
So, really, I just wanna kinda just pick your brain a bit about about the past, honestly. Like,
more than just, you know, miscoin in general, but really just, like, how
you got all started with, you know, the Ethereum Foundation and whatnot. So, like, when did you actually hear about Ethereum and what was your
kind of first initial reaction to it?

SPEAKER_02:
Sure. I I have to say my wife think it's hilarious that
I'm old enough that my early work is being discovered by archaeologists now.
So I find it I find it funny, a little bit weird, but it's it's fun.
So
I I think so I started
being interested in making Bitcoin around
2012.
So that was
in
like, it feels like a long time ago. It feels like the early days, but for me, I I already felt like, oh god. I missed it. They're already talking about Bitcoin on the good wife on on live TV.
I like, oh, no. But, like, he he used to be under a dollar. Now it's, $10.
Damn. I so missed Bitcoin. Right? That's too bad.
I I even remember, like, I posted something on the forum saying, oh, no. I tried buying Bitcoin at $5. I paid.
It was so hard.
And then someone simply,
like, I think,
tipped me, like, 5 Bitcoin on Reddit saying, hey. Here's
here's your $5 worth of Bitcoin. And it was, like, back then, I don't know, like,
probably a full Bitcoin.
Right?
So, like, Bitcoin was $5 back then. So that was that that was those early days. Uh-huh.
Again,
didn't feel too early.
And
then
I started paying attention because I felt that I knew someone bigger would come
for Bitcoin. And I just started following all sort of projects,
like, cored coin and
master coin and things like that. Uh-huh. And so I found a tune. And I was wow. I was so blown away and captivated
that I couldn't think of anything else. And I the the people were still very active on the Reddit. Like, Italic would answer questions
personally.
And then I just started helping out on the forum, on the Reddit.
I'm I'm a designer. I'm not a coder. So I thought, hey. Like, there are enough coders here. Maybe they this is maybe the designer, and then someone would ask something for a presentation I could give them.
And then by the time that the presale rolled around, they started
having cash, hiring people, and I was on the list. So that's how I got
I started working with some some crazy people.

SPEAKER_01:
So you did not, like, expect to be so heavily involved
and become the pioneer that you did. You were just kind of
jumping in and and, you know, interested in this new opportunity, really. You didn't expect it to blow up like this.

SPEAKER_02:
I certainly didn't expect it to like, sort of yes and no because I felt that back then,
it was it seemed very obvious that he was going to be a big thing, and I was like, I'm I'm amazed that nobody else is paying attention to this. I was like, can't I I I felt like telling everybody I knew. Can't you see? Look at this shit. This is this is crazy. It's like a blockchain,
but it's a computer inside, and people were like
think like, people were acting as as a crazy acting as crazy. Like, I
I
I was a founder of a company back then. I I was doing, like, an iPhone app, sort of, like, Instagram for fashion list, and I had raised money with, like but the the app wasn't going anywhere, and I realized that I wasn't
I wasn't using any of my spare brain cells to think about my iPhone app. I was just thinking about it all the time.
And then I told my friends that I I wanted to leave this. They were like, are you, like, leaving the app you founded to work for a 19 year old that's going to pay you in,
like, makeup money that he invented?
I was like, yeah. Sure. That that seems like a great idea.

SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. That that's that's

SPEAKER_01:
crazy, man. That's honestly the I mean, just your your your,
you know, your belief in in what this could turn out to ended up leading you to such, you know, success and a pioneer you know, being a pioneer
in this space.
So when we talked before in the past, you told me you kinda helped assemble
the Miss Wallet development team. You explained you were part of, like, the hiring,
and you brought Fabian on board. How did you go about, like, getting in touch with or finding Fabian to add to the team, and what made you so confident in his abilities?

SPEAKER_02:
So when I started working
so I the first person I started talking about working was was with Gavin Wood. Gavin Wood was the one who I sort of introduced me to the idea of of making a
browser
like a I
would say that really my the way I got to work was that I downloaded what what was the, like, latest client CPP,
the c plus plus client,
and then it was called Aleph Zero.
And if you ever you should try to Google how it that looked like because it it was
it felt like
the command of an Airbus. Like, a lot lots of small windows
setting showing all sort of like buttons and things you had to push. It was super complex. But I still look at it and say, woah, this is like a fantastic app. I wish it was simpler to use.
And I designed something which which was very similar to what the Mist Wallet looked like.
And then I was very proud showing that to to Gav.
And he he called me to have a Skype call and then he told me, look, I I I I thought I I had basically retransformed the whole thing. He told me, no. I I think you you're not going far enough. I think you're not thinking big enough
about this. I was like, look. I I took this thing that was weird and I made it something that looks usable. It looks like a blockchain which were like that that's what it is. Right? You it's a blockchain, but instead of sending coins, send contracts and you execute stuff.
And it was like, no.
This is going to be the foundation of a new web. We are calling this web tree and it's good. There's going to be a browser and there's going to be like client interfaces
and you're gonna download it via torrent or via
or via Swarm. You're gonna talk to people directly via p two p. It's going to be like it's going to replace
the Internet browser as we know it. It's going to be it's going to be better than Onion and it's it's
now you're going to download apps direct instead of downloading the apps for a server, you're going to do that there'd be down downloading it from your peers, from your friends. So apps will never go online. And I was like, wow. This is this is crazy. I wanna be a part of this.
And then I I got into the Jeff Jeff team. Right? There was basically three teams in the early days of the foundation. It was Vitalik, Jeff, and Gav. Vitalik was doing
was working in Python, was mostly almost a research part,
you know, which was mostly interested in in knowing if the thing worked.
And Gavin and Jeff really were doing the the hard clients, one in
in Goetheion and the other in c plus plus.
And when I joined the Getheion, they were I was, like, the third person to join the Getheion. It was, like, Jeff,
Felix,
Victor Tron, which then became the head of swarm, and then me, right, or something like that.
And I started trying to, like, build an interface on top of that, and it was very hard. It was very complicated.
And I asked Jeff, look, Jeff. I think if you wanna really build a wallet, we need someone who can
has a lot of experience building apps with with with on the web. Right? Something that you can use CSS.
You can use
custom, like, JavaScript to to build apps. Not only build the the app itself, but to build the app inside that.
And he was like, yep. I know just the guy. Like, there's there's this
crazy guy that that came up on on a few on a few
meetups. He was talk very excited about Ethereum,
and we don't know what to do with him, but maybe he know he can help.
And then that's how I started working with with Fabian. I called him,
and, like, in theory, he was working for me, but I I guess he never never got the memo because he was, like, he was bossing me around and giving orders, and it was great. Right? The way it worked would be that I would often come up with an idea, and then I would tell him, I I think we'll we should do this. And he was like, no. I I don't think that that's going to work. And then I was going to no. No. I think I think it is going to work, and I modified my idea a little bit of the told like, gave him back to him. And then he came to me, and I still don't think it is going to work. We should do this instead. And then at some point on this on this debate going back and forth, we would come to a very usable solution
that he was able to implement, like, in a day. He was very good at implementing stuff very quickly that and that made me very, like,
impressed by by Fabian. Right? He he was a fantastic coder. He wrote the book on what was the
the standard of web development back then. Like, back then, everybody was talking about Meteor. Mean, like, wrote a book on Meteor.
That was that was great working with him.

SPEAKER_01:
Wow. That's that's that's amazing. I didn't realize he he wrote a book.
He wrote like, he wrote the book,
like, book before,
getting into web three just about regular, like, web two development?

SPEAKER_02:
Yeah. You were a book on web web web two development.
Like, back then, everybody was using all sorts of
JavaScript
libraries to build web.
I think the nature was the one thing that you used to if you wanted to have like a single page application. Right? You wanted to have
a web page that looks like an application, which is the standard today. Every page looks like an application, but back then it was actually very hard to do.
Meteor was a very
popular library.
Fabian basically wrote a book on Meteor.
So he was he was very deep into that.

SPEAKER_01:
Wow. That's that's super interesting.
So
who's, like whose idea
was it to kinda
make this make a fun little token to touch the features and, like, give it away to users on Reddit? And why pick
Reddit
rather than,
like, Bitcoin talk,
which was, like, what was predominantly used back then.
Yeah. Just

SPEAKER_02:
So here's the thing. Right?
We didn't use Bitcoin talk at all. We were using Reddit because Reddit was we used two two main forums. It was the forum.egen.org
which is which is doesn't exist anymore.
And there was Reddit. Right? That was the main form of communication.
And we think about Bitcoin talk where people would launch new coins and projects
but we weren't launching a new project of mine. So let's talk about tokens in the first place, right? Where does the idea of making tokens
come?
Well
that has always been there. In fact,
the first use
of,
like, the I I I think one one of the things that is on the white paper,
one of the first things on the white paper is Ethereum is can be used to do to do token.
And they and that became obvious because what was happening back then, it was it was Bitcoin. And then whenever someone wanted to launch
invented the new thing to build on top of it, they would launch a whole new token. Mhmm. So they were like, oh, I wanna do this blockchain thing, but I wanna use it for
storing name.
And then they launched a fork of Bitcoin called Namecoin. Yep. And then someone else thought, oh, you know what? We should have property
assets inside here.
We could and then they launched Coloredcoin,
which was a whole not real thing. They tried to do at some point, it was on top of Bitcoin, then it wasn't.
And then someone someone started doing and then MasterCoin was like, oh, no. I think what you should do is that we should have
an exchange inside.
So you you can send the coin or ask for an exchange or send a token.
And basically every time anyone wanted to do something new,
they had to make a new opcode for MasterCoin.
And Vitalik was working with MasterCoin and Colorcoin back then. And that's when so it's already realized that's that's very inefficient, the idea that you have to either release a whole new blockchain whenever you someone else thinks about a new feature or that you need to, like, create a whole new
new upgrade to your blockchain.
So

SPEAKER_01:
I think you might have rugged there.
Can't hear you.
Is it just me, Mac? Can you hear him?

SPEAKER_02:
Alright. Let's see.

SPEAKER_00:
Alright. Good. I'm I'm back. Yeah. Alright. Awesome.
Yeah. So

SPEAKER_01:
I don't even know where you left off.

SPEAKER_02:
I was talking about tokens.
Yeah. Talking about tokens. Yeah.
Am I the only one who heard who couldn't understand anything that Mac said because he was very distorted?

SPEAKER_01:
Or Yeah. He was a bit distorted. I don't know what's going on with that.
Okay. So
yeah. So you were talking about,
like, you know, MasterCoin
and those types of
projects, and you had to, like, you know, release a whole token and stuff. I was just I was asking more about, like,
who decided to just, like,

SPEAKER_02:
play with the missed token and just, oh, let's just give it away for free on Reddit. Like Oh, that's what I'm getting at. Right? So we knew tokens were important. And then at some point, I post like, we decided, hey. We we want to do a token release on this.
And I posted on Reddit,
hey. Let's talk about the coin
standard. Let's talk about something. There was a very interesting conversation
out of that. Based on that conversation,
Fabian wrote
the
wrote like the ERC standard.
When we we released the
and and then when we released the the the new Mist Wallet, we wanted people to try out because there were no tokens on Ethereum. Like, there was nothing you could tokenize.
So we basically released two tokens. One came with the wallet and was the unicorn thing whenever you donate it to the foundation you got on the unicorn.
And the other
that we wanted people to be able to play with it for free was just like
something that Fabian created
literally for fun just using, like, the standard thing that they had Mhmm. And then just started giving away for on Reddit just for people to try it out. Like,
nobody nobody gave a lot of thought about it. It was just this is the best thing that we wanted to try out and wanted people to play around with. Of course. Yeah. No. I I get it. And in regards to the unicorn, the unicorn token was, like,

SPEAKER_01:
five, six months later, though. Right? Is it?
Yeah. I mean, based on the contracts,
I don't know if it was, like Really? It I didn't know I don't know if it was, like, talked about, like, internally, but not released until later. But, yeah, it was released in 2016,
a couple months. I think it was two or three months.

SPEAKER_02:
And I I think unicorns are great too, but, I mean, I I I can't they're very hard to get ahold of. So yeah. I mean, as as you say, like, trust trust the timestamp. Right? I mean, I like, if you were asking me, I would swear
that we released both of them at the same time when we released the the tokens on the wallet.

SPEAKER_01:
Maybe we hadn't that, like Yeah. You I don't think, yeah, you did, but the thing is that,
unicorn is actually like an ERC 20,
quote, unquote, actually an ERC 20 because Mist is basically an ERC 20 besides the approved function.
So it was like, that's why if you go look at the unicorns,
I'm pretty sure they have all of the
ERC 20, standard implemented,
whereas Mist is basically, like, the bit like, the skeleton for it. You know? It's just missing a few parts or one part, and then it would be considered a full ERC 20. But Fabian considers
it. I think you had a, you know, a good
outlook on exactly, you know, how it met the standard and besides the approval function.
But yeah. Yeah. That that's that's super super interesting.
I was gonna say, was there anyone else that kinda helped
in,
like, whether it be, like, just ideating or actually getting in there and coding? Because I know you said you didn't you weren't really a coder that kinda helped with the, figuring out this ERC 20 standard. Was it really just Fabian? I know you mentioned, Gavin Wood. I didn't know if he was kinda
in the coding side of things too, or was it really just like Fabian when it comes to the actual coding part of it?

SPEAKER_02:
Well, we had a lot of feedback from the community in regards on on how to build the tokens.
There there were a lot of some projects that I think the guys from Maker
or I I think Rune was already, like, participating on that. Rune from Maker now.
He was already saying, look. We we have this project. Like
like, and we we already released a big number of tokens, and that that that was, like they they were, like, claiming about, like, oh, their token that they they they they were working on on that project that they had. And, of course, there was no standard for that, and that that's sort of why we wanted, yeah. Sure. But we you release a token, but that doesn't mean that like, it we need a standard so that everyone can release tokens and those tokens can exist on wallets and things like that.
But I think
so Fabian basically got the feedback from the whole the community as a whole. Mhmm. Like,
wrote the road standard,
and those things were very
it was a very participatory
project. Right? So this writing a standard is
by by its design, something that you want to have the buying of the community. You want to have a lot of feedback
so that everyone can at some point just agree
on something. Right? So it's not something that you just come out and say, hey. He did it how the foundation is going to do. No. We we wanna hear it, and we wanna make sure that everyone is following the standard.
Otherwise, it won't be a standard. We we we just do a proprietary for that.

SPEAKER_01:
Yeah.
Yeah.
That kinda leads me into my next question is, did you believe, like, ERC 20
would
kind of achieve this relevance and be as big as it is here, like, ten years later, or did you expect a better or newer standard
to come around?

SPEAKER_02:
We knew the tokens
were super important for EGM. Right?
Like, back when we were working on the Mist Wallet,
basically, all other crypto wallets served for, like, every every other
especially every other Ethereum wallet
had one function in mind, which was you up you you get the wallet, you got
from the presale,
you
you you get your and you send it to exchange to sell. Right? Or you just bought something in an exchange and you send it to yourself. That was the only reason that anyone would use a wallet.
And we were like and there there were like a lot of already other wallets back then, and all of them were just that. Right? It was just a way for you to get
your eater back and sell it.
And we really
wanted to to fix that by and we knew that if you wanted people to use Ethereum as we wanted,
we need to create those functions. We need to invent new cool stuff that people want to work and that's why it was really important for us to to start working on tokens.
Like, did you expect
the ERC 20?
Here's something funny that I didn't expect. Right? So we really expect
tokens themselves to be big. I did not expect the word ERC 20 to be so big. Right? The point
that
Bitcoin tokens are known as BRC
20,
which is sort of like laughable
because
it was
like it wasn't the 20 of anything.
Right? 20 doesn't mean tokens. 20 was just a random number
that happened to be the order in which Fabian asked the questions of so and suddenly, like, b or c 20 becomes the center. But I think that's
hilarious,

SPEAKER_01:
honestly. Yeah. I mean, that's,
imitation.
It's a serious form of flattery.
They Yeah. It's it's kinda even though those, like, b r c twenties don't even have, like, smart contracts or anything like that, it's a totally different
kind of tech.
It's just it just pays homage to the fact of how, you know, important the ERC twenty was to kinda, you know, the development of the tech. I mean, you're a pioneer. I mean, you, Fabian, everyone that was a part of this, like, you guys created something.
Like, even though the miss miss wallet went and, you know, sunsetted at some point, like,
the the, you know, the mark you guys had on on on just cryptocurrency
and blockchain in the world is it's honestly really nuts, and it's crazy that you weren't even really expecting it to have, you know, that much

SPEAKER_02:
Let me say a little bit because you keep calling me a pioneer and how, like, how everything we did. I think whenever you get
the new community,
right, you'll find that it's always like it's very few people working there. Right? Whenever
when when I got there, there was probably less than a 100 people working
on anything at Ethereum. So anything you do, if you if you start working on a project and then that project becomes big,
then
all those
little marks that you do, of course, they also become big and they also create ripples
and you can trace that ripple back to the person
that were there. But the thing is
those ripples only matter because the project will grow and the project grows because a lot of thousands
of factors.
Right? So I think
I think the main
I would say that if someone
if if someone thinks about it, wow. I I I don't.
But here's the cool thing is that there's at any point in history, there are thousand, a million other projects
that are happening or things that are happening which will eventually grow.
Like we can look back and say, oh, this thing became big and therefore the people there
were special because they were there. But my point is if if you all you guys are people who care about
like leaving ripples and things like that, I my suggestion would be like just find projects that will
that that will allow that they will grow and they're allowing those ripples to be to be big. Right? I I don't think it's the action of those pioneers are super important, etcetera. It's just that we we happen to be there, and we did a good a work that I was proud of.
But
I think those opportunities are always coming.
Right?

SPEAKER_01:
No. Yeah. I agree. And it's it's just about,
you know, building really at the end of the day and and building in something you're passionate about.
But regardless of the fact you're a pioneer,
a lot of people agree. So maybe you weren't going into that with the mindset of, hey. I'm a pioneer. You're just in there, you know, building,
you know, trying to do cool stuff upon or something that you think had a lot of potential.
And that to me is is a definition of pioneer whether you whether you

SPEAKER_02:
had that mindset going into it, but, I think we all appreciate here you hearing what you've done. But that that that would be my suggestion. Right? If if if anyone wants to, like, if anyone wants to, like, own a part of history, the best way to do it is to invent it and is to help write it. Right? I think that is the the beauty part. It is so I really urge everyone who, like, loves to look back at history is also to think that in twenty years whatever you do now will be part of history. Right? So just, like, try to think enough.
Try to think about, like, what is where you wanna be right now that probably can be something big in the future because that's exciting. And even if you bet on the wrong horse,
just betting
just just being able to build things that last and don't last is is a great experience. I built tons of things that were forgotten and didn't last and disappeared
over the years
before I I, like, stumbled in into Ethereum. And maybe the things I built into Ethereum, I would say that almost all the projects I built
were things that didn't last and, like,
broke down.
But the building blocks that we sort of accidentally created to build those things became much bigger than the projects
I was building I had expected to be. Right? Things like the token,
things like ENS,
things like like block
like, the standards
for
a lot of, like, small thing like the icon that you color icon you see on on Etherscan.
Those things were just a tiny
feature for the wallet,
and they became
big project in themselves, much bigger than the wallet for every and I think that's that is super fun.

SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. And, I mean, you're you're motivating
me right now to get out there and build.
I I I I really appreciate Yeah.
Everybody should really build. I mean, at the end of the day, like like you said, like, you might as well put a bet out there instead of not even jumping in the game. I mean, you know, who knows? You could be one of those pioneers. You could change the game even even though you're just building something
that you you know might not change the game, but at least, you know, you're in there actually trying to make a difference in something you're passionate about.
But yeah. No. That's that's great. I like that kinda leads me to the question you were just mentioning some of it. Like, outside of, like, the creation of the ERC 20
and even ENS,
what do you think
was your greatest contribution
in those early days? I know there was the development of the things like the the web three s,
the web three JS library,
the easy to use wallet interface,
the blocky Identicon,
and CamelCase checksum.
I know those were a lot of great developments. Is it one of those, or is it, like, potentially something else that I didn't mention?

SPEAKER_02:
I
so
something like, I I'm very proud of all of that. Right? But there's another very interesting project that I think what I did after
Electiva Foundation is I started working a project,
which I called Unilogin,
which was another project that went nowhere.
But, also, a lot of the ideas that were there are starting to come around and I think those those would be super important. Right?
And what I wanted to do on Unilogin,
what I wanted everyone to stop using private keys for their
for their
for their crypto. Right? I thought
that, like, private keys some was something that wasn't user
that a user should never see.
And and my point was I think that everyone should have more wallets and that a private key was something that your device created
never took out of the device. And whenever you lost that device, you just replace it with another one.
And so we I I worked for two years on smart wallets, something like that.
Then at some point,
they we hit the wall in which creating a Morph Wallet will cost you 500 a $100 just to acquire a new user. We had to close down the company.
But a lot of those the idea that I I spent, like, two years talking and I'm going to and and trying to share
and trying to, like,
trying to talk about some conferences
or
now finally without shoes and things like that becoming real
because people
are like today, the the word is, like, account obstruction.
Right? And I think
it's still one of the most important things to happen on
if you wanted blockchains to go mainstream
would be for users net that never have to care about private keys again. Right? Where you you just have a name
and that name is connected to
a couple of multiple devices
and
and you basically use one device to allow you to use the other. Right? And I think we've
we've
and I think we are probably reaching a moment where this will be able to to be done. Right? But we have not only cheaper l twos that allow you to have more wallet.
We have it's easier for you to
deploy it have already the address of a smart contract that is can be deployed in all l twos at the same time. We have pass keys, which is a crypto standard that is that is accepted by
by Android and by Apple devices
which is
really great at logging in.
And I think it's
like
and I I'm that's something I've I'm very happy to see grow on on crypto.
Well, yes. I am I am proud of all the other achievements you you you said.

SPEAKER_01:
No. Yeah. That's that's actually really interesting because,
I'm actually developing some stuff now, and my developer constantly talks to me about how big account abstraction is going to be for this next,
bull run,
you know, bull run and stuff like that. And it's it it's really fascinating to hear that you were actually working on something like this a few years ago, was it? Or, like, in 2018.
Yeah. 2018 was the first time I even talked about that. I think you were just ahead of your time, to be honest, you know. Like, that is really because it's it's huge when it comes to onboarding
new, like, users, quote, unquote, normies
because, like, nobody wants to, you know, have to to store their private key and worry about all that nonsense.
And you were working on it back in 2018. It was just maybe the space hasn't mature wasn't mature enough then, and it's obviously, it wasn't to a point where now it is. And, damn, that sucks. I would really like to see, maybe,
Unilogin make a comeback.

SPEAKER_02:
I'm pretty sure thing like, it all the thing I wanted to to function for will will exist.
I'm I'm very happy to see them because I think it's super important for
in order for apps to reach the mainstream that we wanted want them to reach.

SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. No. That's that's great.
Taking a little bit back to the beginning again,
what was, like, your guys' main challenges and considerations
when it came to the the Mist Wallet and,
the early development of it, especially into relations to the fact that Ethereum was so early
and it was still evolving.
What do you guys you know, what do you think about that? What was your biggest,
you know,
maybe challenges and considerations you took into place when you've been building?

SPEAKER_02:
Oh,
I think that I
think that is an interesting question that comes to the heart of what made it do the the Mist Wallet and why it was doomed and why it failed. Right? One of the things we really wanted was that we sort of wanted to reinvent
the way the web would work.
And we really wanted to make sure that
every user of the Mist Wallet was also a full node. Right? With one going to be a full node on Ethereum, it was also going to be a
full node on Swarm, and every app there would be,
like, hosted on Swarm.
We didn't even want it to have to be for you to be able to connect
to to
a, like, a traditional web, which we call it. Right? We didn't even want you to be able to connect to a to a website. Right? The idea was that every app that you you have to you you you load,
if you load an ENS name, and that is going to connect to a swarm node,
and that is going to get you down download your your app directly from other missed wallet users. Right? And, also,
you'll you'll be running a Ethereum full node so that you're never dependent on anything. Right?
I think we're very, like,
let's say not very pragmatic about it because the reality was that
it worked
for a few years in 02/2015,
2016.
It wasn't still possible for you to run a full note in your desktop,
But the reality is that by 2017
on one of the first really
big major
full run started happening,
it would already take, like, hours and hours for between downloading and actually having the the wallet work.
And then
almost
and then, like, most people had already migrated by Miramask, which Miramask
is just instant. Right? You download it. You don't need to download the new browser. You already use the browser you like.
It connect it connect there connect directly to Etherscan,
so you don't need to
worry about a full node.
You connect directly to the web so you don't need to worry about
storing your
your web page or anything like that.
And in the end that's why I
think one of the main reasons that
Mist failed because we we were sort of like
dreaming too much in a way. Right? We wanted everyone to run a full road
and like we were ready. We wanted everyone to run a fully decentralized web and that wasn't possible back then and it's still not possible today.
And that is sort of how
the whole project ended with
no users.
We had to shut it down.
One of the main reasons.

SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. That's that was one of my questions towards the end. I was gonna ask why you guys actually decided to sunset,
but that that makes sense because, you know, it is hard to get some people to interact on that level if it you know, you have to create a node and make sure the node is is running correctly and everything, like, that just kinda steers some of the the less technical people away. We

SPEAKER_02:
we were able to abstract over that that that technical side of creating a node. Like, you didn't know you were creating an old. You you know you didn't know you're creating anything of that. You're just uploading.
But the problem with trying to abstract a lot of things of design
is that
you can make a lot of things feel like magic, and that that's what we wanted to do. But there's a point in which you you hit a technical roadblock.
And
for most users, that was when we would tell them, look. It's gonna take you five hours or six hours or maybe a full week before you can
even use this app. Right? And there's no way to abstract about anything about that. Right? I I remember actually
spending hours and hours trying to work on the right mode animation
to make sure that that little bar
would feel that, like, it was loading faster than was actually loading.
But then, like, there's no design that can save you when
the amount of time it's going to actually take it, like, a week. Mhmm. Right? The the animation can look fancy and can have a lot of cute thing, but it's gonna take a week. There's no

SPEAKER_01:
there's no way around that. Right? There's no putting deep stigma on that page. Yeah. I think Mac was talking about that earlier in the earlier space. Mac, you can come up and say something if if your mic sounds alright.

SPEAKER_00:
Nope. Nope. Not gonna say anything? Okay. Sounds good. I'll go to my next question.

SPEAKER_01:
I got a question to ask. Oh, okay. Yeah. Go ahead, brother.

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah.
How's everybody doing? Good. Good. Good. Glad to have you up here. Been a maze magician, but you guys could just call me Mudd.
I have a question for Alex.
I was gonna ask. You actually answered another question I posted
in the
telegram,
was,
what was your biggest concern,
as far as
on the development side of, like, how to get or onboard the next billion users?
And I think you kinda touched on it. You said account abstraction,
if I'm not mistaken.
Another question I wanted to ask was,
what's your biggest lesson that you've learned on a personal level as far as
finding that balance in between,
doing the work, like, putting your head down and just
just enveloping yourself into your ideas and pushing them forward and working with the team. Like, how, what's your biggest lesson you've learned with, you know, trying to push forward an idea you believe in,
but also being receptive to other people's ideas and actually trying to find a way to, make other people see your vision?

SPEAKER_02:
That is a great question because I think
I've
that is an you
that is how we work with a team. Right? I think the best work I've I've ever drawn what and like I've I've been working with remote teams for over ten years. Right? We
way before like Zoom was a thing and and and
way before COVID was a thing, we we were remote teams not because we wanted but rather because there was no other way to get people from all over the world to work in a single project if you have to fly everyone to the same place. Right?
And we we had to work remotely.
And part of working challenge of working remotely is that you have a lot of time
for you alone to be working,
like,
without anyone over your shoulder to check what you're doing. But then you need to have
full conversations with people. And those conversations,
it's it's not about you pushing your idea and then or or accepting
the idea of someone else and guessing who who wins.
But it's really about
trying to
trying to find a common place. Right? I think in those discussion, the ideas get the idea gets better. Often and often and often, the way it would work is as like, I I sort of mentioned that, but I I think I think it's interesting to reiterate.
You would I would have an idea,
and Fabian would have a different idea, and would fight over this idea that put on the argument
every time he would make an argument against my idea I would come back and say, look, yeah, but if we change this then that solves that. And then he was, no. No. But if change this other thing my idea is better. But on those arguments, what we were doing was actually
hitting each other idea and modifying it to a point in which at some point in the middle,
we were like,
yeah. I think that works.
And it I was almost as if we were hit beating each other's idea
until it felt in the middle,
which was, like, a much more strong
idea and something much
and that felt like you belonged to both of us. Right? He never felt at any moment that I was giving up on something that I really believed on or that I was forcing him to give up on his idea. It felt like we were both
by debating it, we were both owning the thing,
and we were reaching
something that was probably better than anything that we we both
could think of. I think Steve Jobs uses the term which I think it's fantastic in which you have to have strong
beliefs
loosely held.
Meaning that, like, you really should believe the things you you like, you you you must be very passionate about your own beliefs,
but also
be very
you should drop them very easily whenever you see something better come along.
Right?

SPEAKER_03:
It's interesting.
Thank you for the,
answer you gave. You actually answered a
few questions I had in mind. That I think it's very valuable information for anybody who's attempting to
promote or push forward an idea, but also trying to work in a team.

SPEAKER_02:
Yeah. For sure. Yeah. And and thinking about that, and it's always important. Right? A lot of the work I did often as as a designer
was that I was just trying to communicate
to the developers
the thing that I was seeing that the users needed.
And and sometimes I was trying to communicate to final users
the thing that the developer wanted to build that couldn't
be understood. So as a designer, I felt I was constantly translating
from those words. Right? I was looking at something that developers wants to build this thing. It's nobody understand what it is. I would translate it to, like, an end user. And then I would, like, advocate for the end user saying, hey. This is how we are gonna build
this thing for them. And I think being that portion in between is super important. And often,
what do you do a lot is just you're trying to communicate and having convincing people that this is a good thing worth building.

SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. That yeah. That that's I I appreciate that question, Mug, because even though
it's a bit of a situation with me, but I'm dealing with the same thing when it comes to, you know, trying to find a healthy,
positive, collaborative environment
instead of, like, you know, being at each other's neck and trying to figure out who's right or what's the best way to go. Sometimes, the collaborative, you know and there needs to be a a a sense of positivity and realize that all the the end goal is the same for everybody.
You know, how we get there is, you know, that's that's how you work together and figure out what's the best way to approach that problem. You know, it's tough to work with teams, especially remote. You're not there to see, you know, people's reactions in person and judge body language. It's it's tough at times.

SPEAKER_02:
Yeah. And you have to listen. Right? If if you like, if you feel that your ideas are pure
beauty and genius
and that everyone is trying to ruin it, you're probably not a very good,
like, team member and probably your ideas aren't that great. Right? You have to have humility and then understand that everyone also have like, other people also have, like, good ideas on how to improve your thing.

SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. I mean, and nowadays with this culture, I mean, some of these crypto Twitter people and stuff like that, like,
there it's very there's a lot of arrogance that everybody thinks they know they know it all. And if you can't if you can't take a step back and see that you don't know it all and you never will know it all, you you know, you're better off as a team because you guys connect you know, you can actually take that receptive, you know, that criticism and take those other ideas and and mesh it into one like you're saying. And now it's not just one idea. It's everybody's idea and, you know, everybody put in the time or effort, now they, you know, all feel kinda, you know, emotionally or connected to that idea. You know?
Yeah. No. That that's that was a great question, Mud. Especially as I'm, you know, dealing with that stuff on my own building. It's it's really, it's really nice to hear something like that.

SPEAKER_02:
Can you hear me now, by any chance? I think we have we have I think we have time for one last question. One last question.

SPEAKER_01:
Can you hear me well? Yeah. Yeah. We could hear you.
Do you wanna ask the final question? I was gonna try to go ahead. Go ahead. Yeah. I'll be just quick.

SPEAKER_04:
So I think you you mentioned, Alex, that there was a lot of attempts to do,
you know,
essentially, on chain wallets and stuff. I know that the the Eth Swarm team was working quite early on,
like Daniel Neji and some other guys like Ido Shadrin on on on Chain wallet called Ethlog get login Eth.
Have you were were you familiar with that one? It wasn't that that early, but it was it was something that I that I also came across and did a little bit of work on probably two years ago. And second small question,
the parity wallet came out just after missed wallets. Was that an an an an attempt to solve the issue with the syncing of a whole mode? Because I remember that that one, there was, you know, statements that they would try and run that on, like, a live client and only, you know, sync
portion of the of the of the chain.

SPEAKER_02:
So I work with Daniel Nagi, if that's the same person. He he went also on the form. Yeah. Yeah. I don't remember his work on
on
on login.
That's interesting.
Not sure you were not sure what it mean by up, like, on chain wallets.
The parity light client thing. I like, since I was working with you and they they were always, like, claims that, like, yeah, this light client sync or this, like, this new light client sync is going to be the one that solves
all light client's problem. Right? So there's oh, it's and and there's
and, like, I I
we tried a lot of them and I think
I still don't think there's
and I think
and I still don't think there's a very
good way to really have a fully decentralized light client
that that
can just connect to it. Right?
First of all,
first
of all, because it's it's hard to do it and often
and that's just even sadder is that often the user doesn't really care that software is a big problem always.
Often the user like, if you say, look, it's instead of taking, like, one gigabyte 10 gigabyte, the thing is gonna give us take a 100 megabytes
And the user is like, why do I even wanna, like, use this to a 100 megabytes if I can just connect to Etherscan or, like, whatever?
And then
that's that's never good enough for a user.
Yeah. Tough.
So yeah. User the user didn't care is
an epitaph for a thousand
decentralized projects everywhere.

SPEAKER_04:
Awesome. Thank you for answering that. I tagged you in a comment with the repo that I was talking about. And, yes, it was Daniel Major from Ed Swarm. I I I did a bit of work with him two years ago.

SPEAKER_01:
Alex, I got one question for you just so you have time to plug here what you're working on. I saw that you're working on a new project called the High Order Company.
Can you explain to us a bit about what that is, you know, what the goals is, and just, you know, talk about what you're currently working on? And after that, I just, you know, appreciate your time and stuff.

SPEAKER_02:
Sure.
I am working
both in two fronts. I am working a lot of ENS on on meta governance for ENS and for DAOs in general. I think it's super important to think about governance. And I still think that one of the main impact that blockchain can do today
is to to have
decentralized
companies or organizations
where all the funds are trackable and everything is transparent. And I'm very proud to see that ENS is I I would say one of the best examples of that.
The second thing I I work a lot I mean, working on is I'm
I'm one of the smartest people I've worked with
during my time with the Tion Foundation, I'm not saying a lot because I did work with a lot of smart people, was a guy named Victor
Victor
Tailin.
Victor Maya then, he goes by Victor Tailin right now. And he he worked on the Mist Wallet and he was like, I I would often ask him to do a task. Hey, can you just integrate this library with with Swarm for a bit? And he was like, two three days later he was, yeah, the work is done, but I I need some more time because I found an upstream bug on the library. And then three days later, he was, yeah, I fixed the I fixed the library,
but I think the library is having a a a the wrong approach. Give me a few days. I'm gonna make a new library for that. And then I I gave him a few days more, and he was like, you know, I've created a new library, but I think the problem real real problem that myth is using the wrong thing. We should, like, re really refactor myth as a whole to do the thing. And at some point, I I joked him,
Victor, I can't give you more time. I know that if you just have all the time in the world, you would just want to build a whole fucking new computer. And he was like, yeah. You're right. I will. Well,
guess what? Victor has all the time in the world now and he's he's actually building a new computer
and he just figured out a way to
like, he he he's been studying, like, computer science,
like, history,
and he found a way that to create
a view of the computers are much more parallel
and
can execute faster and a lot of things like that. And I think it is fantastic.
And it's even and it's it's one of those things that is very hard to act to to to communicate what they are doing,
but I think they are doing something that is going to be big,
which is why I like working with them because part of what I work there is just trying to explain people what they are doing. Right? And I think
and we are working on a new website. It's it's gonna be very cool. You're gonna have to have very see be able to see some animations.
Within essence,
you know, like, we are
we are all using Turing machines. And he's like, look. Turing machines are wrong. There are better ways to do it instead of having this, like, concept of a Turing machine, which is like a little robot with infinite tape that goes back and forth and changes the tapes from zero to one. He's able to turn any sort of computation
and basically a a like a planar graph with a thousand lines.
And those lines
have like four little commands that they can do and they can do it all at the same time. So you can do it you can run it in eight sixteen cores at the same time and it just becomes a very easy way to transform any computation something that is multicore all the time. So, yeah, you should if you think this sounds interesting, you should definitely follow the HVM
page.

SPEAKER_01:
How do I profit off How
do I invest in this?

SPEAKER_02:
Well, you should follow us.
If you wanna be
pioneer yourself,

SPEAKER_01:
maybe you can participate on that somehow. Right? I would like to be a pioneer like you, Alex. I really would.
Is is that the high order company, or is that something else?
Yeah. That's I'm definitely gonna, check that out and do some research in it because that that sounds amazing, and it sounds like the guy you got on board is definitely
one of those those genius pioneers that you don't come across very often. So
Yeah. You should definitely follow-up.
Yeah. I'm gonna look into that. I I wholeheartedly really appreciate you, Alex, jumping on here. Maybe we could do it again in some times because I still have, like, 20 other questions I wanna ask you. But and I know there's other people here too that wanted to come up. But it's been about an hour, and, you know, I don't wanna take too much of your time. So thank you so much,
and I I really I really truly truly do appreciate it.

SPEAKER_02:
Well, thank you for the invitation, and it was fun to have this conversation. Yeah, man. Have a good day. If anybody

SPEAKER_01:
we'll probably stay on for a little bit and chat it up. So you're more than like
you're welcome to go head out and do whatever you gotta do, and thanks, man.

SPEAKER_00:
Great. Thank you, everyone. Have a good one. Bye.

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah. That's great. That was great. How much longer are you gonna stay on?

SPEAKER_01:
I I I don't know. I was just kinda letting him dip out to see what everybody thought. I thought that was really super super,

SPEAKER_03:
you know, Nice job, bro. Informative. Yeah. You really held it down. Good job.

SPEAKER_01:
I mean, I had a whole list of stuff I wanted to make sure I asked them, and I only got through, like, half of it. I would have been on here for another hour, but I appreciate it. Nonetheless, bro. Nonetheless.
Yeah. No. Yeah. That was it was really good. I wanna do this every Monday.
So,
yeah, I'm in in the chat as
a Ascension Guide. So if I was thinking about making a little bit of a,
like, a Telegram group. So if anybody wants to, you know, shoot me a PM, my PMs are open,
you know, which is not the smartest thing to do, but my PMs are open.
So shoot me a PM.
Like, I could get, you know, whoever wants to, you know, jump on here and or, you know, maybe
have some topics that they have and and they want for the next miss Monday. Like, I wanna do this every Monday. I wanna start building the community
to get to a point where, you know, we're having people actually engage
rather than just, you know, waiting for a number go up, which is great and stuff.
And I love Mist,
but I think there's a lot of opportunity here when it comes to community building
or even just, you know, building in general. Like, this is one of the the older this is the oldest ERC 20,
the first ERC 20
in, you know, all of Ethereum. There's a lot of cool things that we could do with this. We just need to, you know, make that community a bit,
you know, tight tight knitted and have a little bit more than just financial sense, which I all know we're here to watch the number go up. But Number go up, bro. Yeah.
That's it. Number go up. But it's actually
fun developing.
I was you know, me and and Victor who,
leads the Discord and and runs the social media.
We were here since October, and we kinda pushed to get
missed, like, you know, the liquidity sufficient enough to start getting people to be able to buy and and take part. And it's been a crazy journey, man, about a lot of ups and downs. Yo. About that about that, I don't mean to cut you off, but you you No. You're good. About the liquidity.

SPEAKER_03:
So I saw that this is on base now,
which is amazing. I think that's a great opportunity
for new users to get
some exposure.

SPEAKER_04:
Is is it bridged or is it just an

SPEAKER_01:
I think there's, like Is it properly bridged? Bridge a more It's bridged, but the liquidity is very, very small because
a lot of people haven't really bridged over. So what we were planning to do is what
I was gonna talk to to,
Alex
about, but we didn't get enough time is there was actually a a Doge
ETH bridge that, Ethereum was planning back in, like, 2017.
And there was 50,000
Mist valued at about a million dollars that were sent to this Doge kind of bounty because it was a bounty. So I was like, whoever can make a bridge between
Doge
and ETH, do you have a bounty? And it was like a shit ton of ETH. And the mist was kind of just thrown in there as, I don't know, a joke
or something. I don't know. That's what I was gonna ask him about. Was like, who kind of thought about sending that? So,
there's actually
some crazy signers on there, like Alex.
Don't know. I think Fabian,
but Vitalik is on there as a signer.
Like, there's a lot of big names on there as signers. If we could somehow
get
the attention of enough signers to go ahead and unlock that 50
that 50 k miss coin, we could have okay. Here's Victor. Hold on one second.
We could, have potentially
enough to bridge over the base, maybe do a little bit of, like, a DOW incentive things because there is a DOW for Mistcoin that I set up, via Snapshot,
and then go ahead and maybe pay out some developers for building cool things on top of Mist. Like, that 50 k would be very, very valuable if we could somehow
snatch it up. But So What's going on, Victor? Oh, yeah. My bad.

SPEAKER_02:
No. You're good. Yes,

SPEAKER_05:
Austin. First of all, congratulation for this initiative. I think that's great. Please keep it up because I think that this most Monday
this Monday is something that we we need to keep. Secondly, about the liquidity in base. Just remember, guys, that Uniswap
pools are permissionless.
No? So everybody's free to to pull their own liquidity. And at the end of the day, I mean, if everybody,
let's say, pools, like, a 10% of their holdings of Mist or 5% or just a 20 teeny amount, At the end, the liquidity there will be more healthy, and we will progressively
be building more liquidity in base. You know? I mean, may maybe now we don't have too much volume there because the liquidity is tiny, so nobody would be interested in trading there. No. But it's something like
progressively. You know? The more people pulling liquidity there, the more volume we will have there and think that we will have more exposure there eventually. So I think that maybe waiting for releasing these tokens of Deutsche DAO, maybe it will take time. So maybe we can do this, come in the effort of providing some liquidity by ourselves.
Not that well, you know, the gas fees now in the main net are very low. So, well, I think that everybody can afford to do a swap in main net because, well, the the the way this morning, I guess, was in $7.06 points or something like that. So it's
not too too expensive.

SPEAKER_04:
Do you know who created the the base side
the base side Mistcoin?
Essentially, the the bridge.

SPEAKER_05:
Yeah. It it's me, but well, there is a tool in base called base me rate. So everybody is free to do to do that. It's very simple. It's just two or three steps, and you have, like, a tutorial developed by the base guys. So everybody's free to do the same in with any a few minute token. It just takes, like, thirty minutes to the whole process, and later on, like, five, six days to have the pull request in GitHub approved.

SPEAKER_04:
Yeah. Yeah. I I actually was speaking about the on the earlier
on the earlier
space, I was saying how base is really,
really popping off and how l twos have made it really, really easy for for
I mean,
lots of different, use cases.
But, surely, you we don't need liquidity
for we only need liquidity of Mist tokens if they want to bridge back
from,
base to Ethereum. Right? Because if you want it well, it depends on how the bridge is set up. But if you're if you're bridging from Ethereum mainnet to base, you essentially
are minting a new token on the base side. And
in that way, you could basically
it's
it's ready for you. So anybody who wants to bridge from Ethereum just bridges it, admits the new token on base, but, obviously, bridging it back from from base
to to to Ethereum would require more liquidity.

SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. I think it locks up. It it locks up that Mist, and that's why it's only one specific bridge. I don't think there's multiple bridges. So if you lock your Mist in that contract,
it mints the, the base token, and then you put that base back in there and unlocks
the, Mist that, you know, whatever amount it was and stuff like that. So that yeah.

SPEAKER_04:
They come the supply can only be as high as how many people locked up in that initial ETH bridge. Yeah. So the liquidity is just that you you we want liquidity just in case we wanna bridge back from base.
Anybody who has missed, we don't you can just go ahead and and bridge across.

SPEAKER_05:
Yes. Yeah. I I was I was referring just to the liquid liquidity in Uniswap just in case you want to do some swaps from the third unit base to to missing base. Just that as
as I was saying, I mean, you don't need a liquidity in both sides to make the bridge the bridge work in such a way that once you you reach one token from minute to to the base side, I mean, it's, like, frozen. It's, like, locked.

SPEAKER_04:
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
we need more liquidity providers

SPEAKER_03:
is what you're saying. I have a I have a suggestion. Right? Uh-huh. What does everybody think about
maybe
because, you know, there's, like, a meme mania right now,
and people are throwing their money at all types of
I mean, pretty much bullshit.
Right? Mhmm. And this narrative that we're looking at right now, we're dealing with this pretty much like
I mean, it it sells itself. I'm just speaking from an investor standpoint. Right? So if liquidity is the goal,
what does everybody think about
maybe
us,
ourselves, instead of waiting for the like, the Doge,
unlocking that 50 k, that that that'll be good.
But instead of, like, waiting
or while we while we wait on that,
I mean, something that we could maybe possibly do if everybody's up for it, maybe we could start,
I don't know, maybe our own our own token or something,
deploy it.
Some of us add some liquidity to that, get it up off the ground.
But x token has the sole
and explicit purpose of,
I don't know, maybe bringing more attention to Mist itself
and the Relic meta itself,
and maybe, I don't know, a portion of,
fees generated or,
money made,
can go towards
explicitly
to
providing liquidity Mhmm. To

SPEAKER_01:
the pool. Yeah. It's I mean, it's interesting. I mean, in

SPEAKER_03:
I think a lot of You know, just something because, know,
we can we can take advantage of
the fact that there's so many people, especially on this new chain because,
like, base that are just buying whatever the like, whatever the hell.
This is actually I don't I I mean, just I don't know the how the mechanics would work, but it essentially that's how, like, the the experience would go. Like, we're all in on it. We know what's up. We're already doing what we can. I see a few of us are already, you know, reposting stuff and posting memes and doing what we can to, like, you know, get it out there and get attention and market it and that's, like, amazing.
But just an idea, you know, just so we can get some, like, new money in and we can actually use that for something and as a community, we all agree. You know what I mean? Mhmm. Full transparency,
no rug bullshit.
I don't know. Just something think it's maybe it sounds gimmicky, but I don't know. Sometimes gimmicks work and,
you know, people always wanna put their money in things. So that that's just where my head was at. I would I would just caution against creating a new token willy nilly because, you know,

SPEAKER_04:
a lot of people forget.
There's a lot of legal things that come into it, you you know. So, like, you Legal, it's good. You could kinda say it's you're you're just splintering liquidity. Yes. No. No. No. Not just that. It's regulation. Right? So if if,
you know, to launch a to launch a token, like, the proper way, you have to make sure that, like, you,
you know, understand the the legalities in different juries jurisdictions
because
and lot of people just don't do this because they're like, whatever. You know? But, you know, it it can really come bite your bite your back in the ass if, you know, like, hey. You launched a token,
and then, you know, the SEC comes knocking or, you know and and remember, you're opening up yourself up to
every single jurisdiction because it's blockchain unless you actually say you can't trade this token in these jurisdictions.

SPEAKER_03:
Like, you know, certain platforms, can't. As an American, you can't use it. I I I see where you're going with it. I see where you're going. And that's definitely something that would be at the forefront is the legality of it because, you know, nobody really has time to deal with

SPEAKER_01:
that.
What I was thinking is properly,
I should say. If we could, I mean, I kinda am starting this with, like, my blockchain historical society and stuff is trying
to get our hands on old
relics
and then potentially
using those as, like, a reward system for supplying liquidity or something like that. Like, there's a lot of different ways we can go about it and still kinda
not launch our own token,
but find a way to reward those that add liquidity
or
there's a lot of different ways about things. And I've actually reached out to some people,
and
got ahold of
via just
really digging into the blockchain and of some old developers that were launching tokens and stuff like that. So It could be NFT.
It could it could be a lot of different things for, my buddy of mine.
His name's, like, t
scurver or something like that,
on on Twitter, and he he wrapped,
a bunch of x copy
NFTs into ERC 20 tokens, and they're pretty, yeah, they're pretty big. He's he's I mean, his last time I checked his the market cap was, like, you know, anywhere between, like, 5 to 10 mil.
And it's just he just wrapped old
or not old, but art from XCopy, and it and just because XCopy is, a historical artist that has a big following, like, it makes it easier to trade it rather than like an NFT and stuff. So A fractional

SPEAKER_03:
like, somebody could get a fractional amount of that? Yeah. They could. I I think yeah. They I think you can as well. But they're like It's something that I feel like people in the community would really bite and go for just because it has to do with, like, Mist. So
the legality thing,
of, like, a actual token,
I agree with that. But something just anything that could
something that could, like, people who are already invested in this can feel like, you know, they're a part of something or they they had got exclusive access to something because they're a holder. Right. You know what I mean? Which starts there. And then from there, we build out
Yeah. No. I and more more liquidity. Attention and liquidity. Education.

SPEAKER_01:
Well, I think a good way to be able to rep that you had own Mist
could be smart, whether it be a PFP or something like that. Like, see how you guys were talking about those badges earlier?

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah. Back in the day badges.
Same thing with, like,
the dude from Bankless, like, high like, with the with the Pope. You know, the POAP?
Yeah. Yeah. Yep. Yep. Things like that. You know what I'm saying? Like, something similar
to that,
and that could have a whole bunch of that could open up a whole bunch of other,
you know, doors to that could lead back to the thing you were talking about of the
dower society about the relics and, you know, collecting
and stuff like that. Uh-huh. It leads back to one another.

SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. I think there's a huge huge market for this,
these relics and stuff. And I'm, like, you know, I'm not gonna go through and show any relics or anything like that.
But there's a huge, you know, like, with any market, you know, like, even, like, video games and stuff, like, people are paying
top dollar for the old early video games, you know, the ones that came out, some of the first ones.
Like, you have you have some of those in in mint condition, you know. People are spending tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of dollars for some of those things. You know, why does why is crypto only different? Especially, it's a in the fact of crypto is, like, one year in crypto is, like, ten years, you know. Like, that's how fast it it kinda moves.
So, like, I really see a huge opportunity in these early tokens, these early NFTs.
I think, like, a PFP or something, which is something that I was I was kinda working on for Mist,
or another token that I was gonna move over to Mist.
The only thing is I kinda wanted to, like, do it for free, you know, or you locked up x amount of Mist, and you got your toke you got an NFT. If you don't want your NFT anymore, you burned it and you got your Mist back.
But
it could be we could do a certain percentage or fee just to build up
a little bit of whether it be a treasury or some liquidity to move over to base because
seeding base liquidity would be

SPEAKER_03:
really, really great. Just That was my point. Yeah. We need we should do that. That was, like, the crux of what I was getting at, really. It just needs to be tasteful because you don't wanna dilute

SPEAKER_01:
Of course. What we have here. Like, the like, whether Mist has liquidity on base or not, like, I'm in my opinion, this is not financial advice, it doesn't matter. At some point, Mist is gonna come across the right eyes, and this thing is gonna blow the fuck up. Now
it would have been nice to have an you know, nice liquidity on two chains just to give other people options. You know, ETH will be at some point
It is hot right now. On on you know, unusable.
You know, at some point, it will not unusable, but very expensive to use on, and that will drive a lot of people away.
So it would be nice to get, you know, another chain functional with, you know, cheaper gas.

SPEAKER_03:
And people like me. People love me.

SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. No. Base is I have some questions about base on, you know, some things they said, like, you know, if something did go down, I think they would bend the knee to the SEC. And if you don't fucking
give up your information, you won't be able to bridge out or something like that. It's always a possibility.

SPEAKER_03:
Yeah. I see him hand out Wells notices and and stuff. Like, I've been seeing that. I don't even know what that is, but it's probably like I'm The Wells notice? Yeah.
Oh, it's just pretty much like
in layman's terms, it's kinda like a a a forewarning
of
or like a chance.
That's like that's like what the SEC gives companies like, hey. Just just a heads up, We figure you're doing something that falls out of bounds of the law. Yeah. And this is your chance, so this is your, like, acknowledgment.
This is your chance to realize we're on you pretty much or, like, something's coming. What is It's

SPEAKER_04:
not an official charge. It's just kinda like a a notice. Yeah. They're essentially saying they're saying that, you know, we are coming we are going to take you to court for x and x for x and y, and you should start
preparing your your defense. Right? Prepare Yeah.

SPEAKER_03:
So it's intent it it intend to prosecute. With Robinhood. I've seen it with some other exchanges. So what you just said about base, yes, that is also something that we should think about,
you know,
focusing in too much of our eggs in that base basket.
I just figured base because only because of the popularity, but, yes, that is also a concern that I think about as well. I mean Yeah. Base

SPEAKER_04:
Base is pretty safe,
purely because it is Coinbase, and Coinbase has actually
gone through the rigmarole
with the SEC. Think that it's may it could be there could be more right now, but it's like Coinbase is, like, the only one that's
is is, like, backed. Like, it's it's fair fair to that. It's insured, essentially.
So they went through that whole process, which is which is good.
But
yeah. I mean, if you didn't know, Joe Joe Lubin from consensus is actually taking the SEC to court because of all this all these Wells notices to to different companies like like Unisoft. See that. Yeah. It's great.

SPEAKER_01:
What's wrong? Gary didn't get, you know, didn't get the job at Binance, so now he's all salty and just throwing notices at everybody.
Fucking I can't I have no I

SPEAKER_04:
have no idea. They're going off the MetaMask. They're going they they they're going back on

SPEAKER_03:
All the wallets. They're they're it's like they're trying to just it's like operation choke point. We're still in it. Yeah. They're basically they're basically trying to now say, hey.

SPEAKER_04:
You know, it is a security even though they've
gone through
like, the the same people who are saying that it's not a security have actually, like,
you know, stated that it is
a a, what do you call it, commodity
in the past. They're trying to say that MetaMask and other wallets of broker
broker
what's it called? A broker Broker dealer. Broker dealers. Yeah. Which is absolutely
insane. They're kind of just the terminology for broker dealer is just
not good enough. Crazy. Yeah. It it it they they they I think everybody should go look that up right now. Yeah. Yeah. They're basically hanging off the the definition of facilitation.
So, like, they're saying, oh, but it facilitates.
You know? But the fact is it's a piece of it's a it's a it's an application,
and it can't it can't, like, execute without
you pushing a button. So in the same sense that they're calling it's a facilitator, you can say that, oh, okay. Cool. Well, Apple
and and and Windows and, you know, Microsoft
should also be in this in this, you know,
what do you call it, court case because they're also facilitating
these things. They're facilitating in the same way that MetaMask is. Yeah. I wouldn't worry about I wouldn't worry about, like,
you know, regulations
for
token,
like, a bridge token because
the the onus is that it you're bridging the the the origin is the Mist, and none of us here are the creator of Mist.
So and that would basically just be, like, opening up
making a case against a token that has already gone through the rigmarole. So, you know, I don't think we worry about bridge wild precedent. Yeah. I see where you're going. Well, every single bridge token would also need to then doubly
kind of, like, prove itself, which is which is ridiculous.
But Mhmm.
I like the idea of
of an extra kind of,
like, it almost like a marketing campaign, like a onboarding campaign. There's I'm gonna also think about it and chat to you, AC, about I think we have the power to do it with with the amount of people that are already interested in Mist

SPEAKER_03:
because
of the just, like, the whole Relic
meta thing. Like, it's not just about price go up. Like, I think the biggest thing that attracted me to it was just not the marketability
of Mist itself
due to the the the providence and the history and the associations,
but
how
I'm literally in real time seeing
OGs,
like, Eth OGs, like, you know, kinda like double back, like because
it's, like, it's kinda, like it's, like, a callback to, like, original
the community,
you know, before
before
the 2021
blow off top, before
Meme Coinmania, before Solana, before all that shit, like,
the OG feel, like, how it was back in the day. Like, people have something that they can actually call back to. Literally, it's what it's called a callback, like, in in in in writing or if if anybody
writes screenplays or anything like that or has anything to do with entertainment, a callback is kinda like, or like in a joke, a callback is like, you know, you're literally referring
back to
something else that was said. I feel like Mist is kinda like a callback to a time. You know what I mean? Like a vibe Mhmm. On Ethereum that people can actually see. Plus the timestamp thing is super, super, super smart. I don't know who came up with that,
but that's really good. That's that's that's really good. Mhmm. Even even
even It embodies what I'm what I'm trying to get across.

SPEAKER_01:
Even Alex said that. And Alex is like Alex is like like,
I'm not fudding or anything like that, but Alex is like, he's still kinda, like, just blown back at what Mist has become. He did not expect it
to get to this point, which is fine. You know, he he was just building, and he ended up building something great. Trying to give him the flowers, bro, and he was like, no. Have to.
No. He's he's just a he's what he is. He's just like a builder. He's just a builder. Yeah. He's a he's a good guy. I've I've had a couple, like, conversations with him outside of the
the space, but he just, yeah. He he he wants to build and make good things and,
the the u the whole unicorn like, that's one token I will talk about because he brought it up. The unicorn token is super cool. Really, really super cool, but it's, like, impossible to get your hands on. Like, that would be potentially something that would be really, really cool to give,
as, like, a reward or something if you, like, locked up some mist,
but it's, like, impossible.
They're, like, so

SPEAKER_03:
I like where you're going with that though, like, stuff like that, you know? Yeah. I think that falls in the line and then also it kind of

SPEAKER_01:
gives us a bit of leeway when it comes to litigation because we didn't start these tokens. We're just giving them out. You know what I'm saying? Like, we didn't
actually,
you know, launch these tokens.
So if we were able to get our hands on some of them and just, like, give them out for free, not even necessarily, like, set a value behind it or anything or, you know, even make a liquidity pool, it's still, you're getting these old,
you know, relic tokens.
You know? At some at some point, somebody would probably make a pool and do a whole bunch of stuff and start an initiative and grow a community just like we did with Mist.
You know? Like, that's what's fucking great about this is, like, anybody could step up and do anything for whatever token it may be, whether it be a actual token that's a relic or something that was innovative of the time. Maybe it's not 2017.
Maybe it's not 2018 or, you know, maybe it's 2019. Maybe it's 2020. Like, that's still, like, you know, of, you know, four or five years ago, like, the the space was much different then than it is now. I mean, look at Uniswap came around in 2020,
and that was one of the, you know, probably one of the greatest
crypto related tech advancements
of our time. The fact that liquidity pools could be made and anybody could trade any token and doesn't really need much liquidity behind it. Like, that was, you know, huge, and that was just created in 2020. If you really think about it, like, we are still so early in the tech development, you know, in the days of the, you know, the tech development,
how farther we can go. You know, at some point, like, with account abstraction,
you're gonna get to a point where you're not even you're using crypto, and you're not even using it, and you don't even know you're using it. You know? It's like and that's when we're gonna see the normies,
you know, normal people start to get involved, and they're not even gonna know that they're using crypto. But on the back end,
they are, and then that's when you're gonna see the explosion. That's when you're still gonna see Bitcoin hitting half a million, a million dollars because

SPEAKER_04:
the adoption is there. You know? I mean Is this turning into now? There was there was bank call and zero x protocol in 2017.
So, I mean, they were on chain, you know,
swapping
facilities
for a long time. But Uniswap just Don't don't fudge me, dude. No. No. No. No. Points. I'm not I'm not fudging. What I'm saying is that Uniswap just Uniswap just did it really, really well. You know what I mean? They they really did a a great job, and one thing that they did was
they they had their their code open source. They also what do you call it?
They they
they iterated really, really quickly with v two.
They, you know, they they did really did do
they did something, though, that was quite different.

SPEAKER_00:
Yeah. They they innovated. Yeah. Yeah. For sure.

SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. I'm I'm excited about Uniswap v four too with the whole hooks thing and everything. Like, I was thinking about, you know, how to build on top of the hooks. I'm not a developer. I just kinda think of things in development ways and try to, you know, figure out a way to make cool stuff. But Uniswap, they did their thing for sure, and, yeah, they definitely changed the game. Zero x had liquidity pools like that. I thought they just had, like, a straight up DEXs.

SPEAKER_04:
Bank one, Xerox.
They I think in the early days, I think Xerox did have.

SPEAKER_01:
I don't know, dude. I think Uniswap made the LP. I think Uniswap came up with the LP idea. Yeah. You might be right. But Because I remember trading on, like, Ddex, which was they used Xerox. I'm pretty sure.
And that
was, like, 2019.
That was, like, when all the fucking burn tokens came out, which I think there's actually, you know, potentially some opportunity there and stuff, some deflationary tokens, you know, with this whole inflationary shit going on.
But yeah. No. It's it's been a it's been a crazy past I've been only I've been in the game for, like, eight eight, nine years, so
crazy to see how far it's came. But,
I think that if anybody is interested and and wants to make a a Telegram group,
just please message me,
on Telegram at Ascension Guide. I'm I'm in the I'm in the chat, you know, all the time and and post and stuff. So just please shoot me a PM, and I'll make, a miss Monday's private telegram
where we could talk about, you know, potentially
topics or maybe special guests or what we could do. And, you know, I really think that this miss Mondays could be built up to a really you know, to have a lot of a lot of listeners in the futures and
especially the way as as Miss Coin grows and and gets more people in front of it. Like, this is the this is the space to come and talk and shoot the shit, you know, potentially bring on other partners or whatever it may be and, you know, just continue to grow this relic space because the the more that the relic space grows,
you know, the bigger opportunity it is for Mist.
So I'm probably gonna wrap it up there, guys.
Anybody that, you know, wants to shoot me a PM, you're more than welcome. I appreciate everybody jumping on. I think Alex had a lot of great things to say.
Yeah. I I'm excited for the future.
Appreciate you, man. Thanks for the time, bro. Yeah. For sure. I'll see you guys potentially next Monday.
I wanna do this every Monday, but at the very least, like, every couple Mondays.
So I'll keep everybody posted in the chat and
missed telegram,
and, yeah, we'll, we'll talk there. Thanks, everybody.
