SPEAKER_01: So hello, I am Bob Summerwill and this is Early Days of Ethereum with my good friend Viktor Trón. So hi Viktor, how are you?

SPEAKER_00: Very, very well, thank you. Hello Bob, thank you for inviting me to the show. It's wonderful.

SPEAKER_01: Well, great to have you here. So yeah, we bumped into each other in Buenos Aires for Devconnect and I'd hoped to record there but for one reason or another that never happened. So good to connect with you online instead. So talking about early days of Ethereum, you were very early in Ethereum. So I mean, what were you doing in your life prior to that that led you to the project? And then work-wise?

SPEAKER_00: Not exactly. I wouldn't say I was exactly very close to the crypto scene, to be honest. I was working on a project with the BBC News Labs, basically a News Juicer project. It's kind of trying to ingest a lot of news sources like from old photo archives, video archives and everything, and kind of juice it, like basically work through the speech recognition and everything and categorize it. And we made it searchable in a very nice way. I mean, of course it's one of these kind of BBC sponsored projects. No one really needed them. It was never really used, but it was a nice project to work on. And anyway, so I kind of left the job at that time.

SPEAKER_01: You were in London? You were living in London?

SPEAKER_00: So yeah, I was in London. I was living in London. And I left the job because I found Ethereum. I was very excited right away. So when, I guess it was when Gavin visited this kind of web, new web meetup, I'm sorry, I think it was a new web meetup, and then presented Ethereum, I was absolutely taken aback, and I thought it was amazing and game-changer. And I mean, what led me to it, to be honest, it was already quite a bit into Bitcoin, which is kind of interesting. Because Bitcoin came into my life through a friend who I knew from an anarchist club, or anarchist Facebook group, basically. So he introduced me to it on ideological grounds. But of course, I was very interested in tech as well. But it took me quite a while to understand what is blockchain, how all these things come together. But by that time I was kind of solid in understanding the blockchain, and my understanding was solid enough so that I could question, question Gavin and then Vitalik and say that is absolutely not going to work, obviously, because of this whole thing problem. And, you know, bit by bit, when I understood that they all had answers to every question that I could ever think of, then that's when I got convinced that they're probably the geniuses I really can want to look up to and have in my biography to learn from. It was a very, very, very great start. And so when Gavin presented Ethereum, next day I was already hacking on the C++ codebase actually, and had my first PR in. We met in a cafe in Dalston, I think. I remember it was quite impressive that I learned how to use Mac, but actually was running Linux OS on it. It was very impressive already.

SPEAKER_01: And so you, you know, you mentioned your anarchist group there. So had Bitcoin earlier been interesting to you from that kind of monetary, you know, anarchist, libertarian?

SPEAKER_00: I have to say yes. I have to say yes. I mean, when Bitcoin came, this was the time when I even kind of learned what money was really. I mean, before I didn't even grasp this notion. And it was very important times in my life. I mean, it was really a game changer to kind of have a framework in which I could totally identify myself with. And yeah, libertarian, I don't know if it's the right word, but I really like this kind of Austrian view of economy. And I have understood what, how our money was used and what inflation was. I never really understood before. It was okay. I came late to the game, let's say. Let's say that. But, yeah.

SPEAKER_01: And the new web meeting that you mentioned, was that like a recurring meetup that you were going to? Were you regularly going to kind of, you know, web meetups?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, but this one particularly I saw because I saw Vitalik's presentation in Miami. So that really got me interested, so I knew what I was in for, and I went and showed up for that meeting in Hoxton Square, I think it was, that meeting.

SPEAKER_01: Sorry, you said Vitalik's presentation, was that the one that he'd given in Miami?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, exactly, Miami conference. And there was a, so I kind of, I knew what, I knew already what I expect from it, but of course I never really understood and Gavin helped me quite a bit to understand it. So it was really great.

SPEAKER_01: Were you watching a variety of Bitcoin conference talks? Was that a sort of a regular thing that you were doing at that point, watching YouTube?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, at the time I was very, very interested and very much into these things. I mean, you know, I was hoping that, you know, changes related to this kind of technologies would come a lot earlier. I was already careful. I was sold in the hype a bit, or contributed to it myself in a way.

SPEAKER_01: Had you been sort of following along with things like Mastercoin and Colored Coins and other sort of Bitcoin 2.0 projects?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, actually I did, yeah. I think it would be Bitshares at the point, I'm sorry, and there was Bitshares I think, yeah yeah. And there was this kind of, and then Open Transactions which was very close to kind of Gavin's heart I think, worked with together. And yeah, I don't know what came after that after all but interesting. And then so after I left the BBC and running that winter, I spent in Thailand half in the retreat and then in my spare time I was working on the yellow paper and with my way through the really hard notation.

SPEAKER_01: Getting through the paper? Yes, a lot of people struggled with that sort of math heavy notation. And so you went to Gav's presentation, which would have been very early February. So, I mean, that was only like a week or so after Vitalik's presentation in Miami. It would have been very, very close. So you spoke to Gav there and then you exchanged emails, did you?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, basically, we exchanged emails. He put me on Skype group. There was a Skype group at the time. I think it was 20-odd people on it, really. So not a big crowd. And yeah, that's how it all started. So very nice in the beginning to discover really grandiose ideas and chat and be part of it. I'm super proud and very happy that I managed to be at the right place at the right time. It's kind of a lucky move to be honest.

SPEAKER_01: So was it a fair bit later in that year that you started working with Danny on Swarm? Were you doing...

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, then it came a little bit later. So yes, first of all, in the spring, I started working on the yellow paper and then a bit on the, as I said, a bit on the C++, but not a lot. And then I think it was in March or sometime that I showed up on the first Ethereum meetup. Maybe not the first. I think you told me it was not the first, but the second one.

SPEAKER_01: In London, this is?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, yes, yes, yes.

SPEAKER_01: So this was organized by Stéphane Tual.

SPEAKER_00: Stéphane Tual there. There was Michael there, who later came from Monax, I think. And then...

SPEAKER_01: Sorry, Michael, was that right?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, yes. And I think who I talked to quite a lot was Jack du Rose.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, of Colony.

SPEAKER_00: Colony fame, exactly. And then there is when I met Jeff first. Jeff became my boss later.

SPEAKER_01: He came to London for that meetup?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, yes, he did. And so I kind of saw that it's quite an international crowd from all over the world kind of doing these things. So I started to take it very seriously. As I said, I kind of left my job and then joined the ranks. And I kind of started contributing to the Go code. And so after that, I was really into the Golang. That's where I contributed most and became part of the Go Ethereum team after Jeff offered me the job around September, October that year, when the foundation was already actually paying out some salaries or recruiting people on the teams.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. So I mean, I was looking at the timing on that. So the Ethereum Foundation was founded in July of 2014, and then the crowd sale was going through July, August, September. And then, yeah, the hiring, that first wave of we've actually got some money to hire people was sort of, you know, September, October.

SPEAKER_00: In October, I was negotiating with Aeron Buchanan, I remember.

SPEAKER_01: Right, right.

SPEAKER_00: My contact then. And then, I don't know when the Amsterdam office was actually funded, but I already visited Jeff I think later in that year there. So when I first kind of joined, I was talking to my summer with my friends in Hungary, some of them related to this Facebook group, and among them like Daniel, Fefe. And there was another person who was very close to Swarm later, but never actually entered the scene officially. Let him be unnamed. And so there was some thinking that maybe the four of us can form a group, and we can just join as a kind of sub-dev team or something. It never happened. So we were just hired individually. Yes, later that year there was DevCon Zero, is that correct?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, yeah. I mean, if we just pop back a little bit. So through 2014, you know, prior to, you know, the sale and so on, I mean, so how were things working early in 2014? I mean, you've mentioned a Skype group where, you know, were most people kind of working through Skype?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, yes, yes. It was really mainly, everything was done by, basically, by Gavin, Jeff, and Vitalik. And the rest of us were just Sherpas on the way at the time. And then just tapping out. I mean, I'm talking about the technical stuff. I'm really not sure about the admin and the foundation stuff. So I hope no offense is taken from anyone. But yeah, for tech stuff, it's yeah. So I think it was actually already in July that Jeff shared a kind of document to do with me, and kind of introduced me to the intricacies of the then aspiring devP2P protocol. And so I think that was my first project, I think, that was really kind of in the code base that I wrote it, which was then later scraped and completely rewritten by Felix and some of the other guys. But that was my first attempt, I think, at the kind of Go Ethereum networking layer. At the time, I was kind of trying to say really crazy ideas to Jeff about some developer tooling, some like, you know, contract verification and like staging and like fake blockchain environment and stuff. And it was, there's other things to do and it was focusing on like maybe the end user, end user applications like the, at the time. I think it was the Mist browser business.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: It was a browser. And so he was kind of trying to talk me out of it and said that the other group, the C++ team is assigned to that anyway. So let me not tread on unwanted paths. And so he kind of brought me back to...

SPEAKER_01: Well I mean you had AlethZero, right? AlethZero I guess was an earlier kind of incarnation of that.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, that's good. And then but there was some not so glorious tasks as well at the time. We factor logging and things like this I remember in the early days. But there was also a time when I was kind of really learning, learning Golang, because that was also not the super popular language. There was a lot of learning to do.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, it was relatively new at that point. So you'd mentioned the yellow paper. So in those very early months of 2014, Gav in particular seemed to be incredibly productive in terms of what he was getting through with the C++ client and that yellow paper. I mean, was it usually the code that was leading and then the yellow paper was being kind of modeled after that?

SPEAKER_00: It's hard for me to say if they really were that kind of hand-in-hand developing, I think. And I can't really tell, maybe it's better to ask him, to be honest. But yes, the productivity and actually the speed that he was churning out code at, absolutely stunning. So it's like a few months after, some of his clients already worked. Yeah, to be honest, I mean, Jeff was the same and Jeff was also incredible in his productivity. And those people were really, really nice example in front of me. So I was really happy to learn from them.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. And I mean, I think that that triangulation was so important, right, of having multiple clients and the spec. And you had the Python client though, not really to that production status, but you know, those three groups all glorious.

SPEAKER_00: Statement that, you know, Ethereum was very proud of that, like, this multi-client development was leading to very, very solid specs. It was actually true, but, of course, that was not the reason, but the reason was that all these brilliant individuals just followed their own favorite language and just wanted their own clients to be built. But, you know, I mean, ultimately what came after it is amazing like that, the specification was really, I just remember just a few times that the specification had to be changed. There's like kind of one case when there's like a modular operation that was not good, not exactly, it's a minus number exactly, not sure exactly. There was another one when I think it was around Easter, 2015, or something before, in the year leading to the launch. And I think that was when it's kind of a problem that the anchor was ahead. The two anchors had the same timestamp, I think. And that led to a fork. I remember I wrote a kind of blog post about it. Never, never, never published it, so it's interesting.

SPEAKER_01: Talking to Jakub Chępluk, so he was an intern at the Berlin office in 2015, but he was telling me about a hard fork that had happened on the mainnet around two weeks or so after launch, which I was completely unaware of. But then looking back, you know, there was a sort of a security announcement by Vitalik, it was a patching of the client. And while I've been doing stuff myself in terms of, like, running old clients, I saw that as well. If you run Geth 1.0.0 or Geth 1.0.1, it gets stuck. It can't go through Frontier blocks. So it was actually a hard fork.

SPEAKER_00: Do you remember what it was related to? It was not that interesting that you remembered.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, it was some kind of gas counting or something, just some kind of little bug. But that was funny. That was a thing that I was not aware about because, like, you know, so it was a hard fork, but it was never given a name because it was just an accident. And you know, you wonder how many more of these little things there were that happened that sort of forgotten in the mists of time. But yeah, so, I mean, through that, through that early 2014 year, you were working initially on the C++ and then later on the Go. I mean, how many people were working on Go in 2014?

SPEAKER_00: I mean, it was really just a few people around. Jeff, I think, was mainly a designer and Alex van der Sande from Brazil, and yeah, and few.

SPEAKER_01: But you were the second team member then, is that right?

SPEAKER_00: Correct, just about. Maybe actually the first officially, I'm not sure. The first paid one, I'm not sure. But, I mean, we came roughly at the same time with Alex and I think with Felix.

SPEAKER_01: Right. Yeah, in terms of employment. Yeah, but I meant when you were working earlier, you know, when you started there. I mean, were there other people working on that Go Ethereum ahead of your joining in with him?

SPEAKER_00: Not really, not really. So he was, I was pretty much among the ones that contributed and the core that inspired him. And it, I mean, there was quite a vibrant ecosystem of, yeah, like it was a vibrant community of people that liked making, you know, data became slow. It was like Nick Savers around, like super tall little dude. And we were going together to the Bitcoin conference. I think it was in April.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Oh, you went to Toronto.

SPEAKER_00: No, no, it was in Amsterdam.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, okay.

SPEAKER_00: And that's when I just really talked to Vitalik quite a bit. It was very nice. And I got a big party this month, so it was a nice time. It was a nice time.

SPEAKER_01: Nick Savers is a name that I've seen a lot of times and I've never really met or spoken to him. I guess he was around a lot early and then maybe kind of disappeared out and maybe he's a little bit of an unknown guy that doesn't, you know, show his face.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I mean he never joined, he was never, I don't think he was ever like an official department team but he was always like yeah, around and helping us. I think he was employed by some bank.

SPEAKER_01: But I saw he and some others did the first continuous integration. You know, they were doing the build system.

SPEAKER_00: Nice, nice.

SPEAKER_01: And then he did work on the Java client as well.

SPEAKER_00: That is true. And the Java client was mainly by, what was his name?

SPEAKER_01: Roman Mandeleil.

SPEAKER_00: That's correct, Roman Mandeleil, who kind of mysteriously disappeared after a few years. I'm not sure what happened to him.

SPEAKER_01: I did see him on Facebook for quite a time. He seems to have either disappeared or something since.

SPEAKER_00: I remember I still talked to him at the London DevCon, the DevCon One, definitely around there with the whole Ethereum J team.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, I don't know what their name was but...

SPEAKER_00: Ether.camp, that's correct.

SPEAKER_01: Okay, thanks for reminding us. Well nostalgic. So yeah, it was early, sort of early 2017 I think that he kind of disappeared. They did Hacker Gold and, you know, this is some kind of like hackathon that there was some controversy about. It looked like the team kind of like bought votes or something, but were paid out anyway. And then, yeah, he sort of disappeared with some people thinking he'd exit scammed. I'm not convinced he did. Because if he did, it was the worst, like, exit scam ever because it was so early. You know, like, it wasn't like anyone had got any kind of big amount of money or anything at that point. It was sort of a very poor scam.

SPEAKER_00: He was definitely unprincipled so maybe...

SPEAKER_01: So you'd mentioned about your sort of collaborative sort of sub-team. So that's Ethersphere?

SPEAKER_00: Well, it's kind of, it was wishful thinking that might be Ethersphere. But on the other hand, I did register that as an organization on GitHub at least and even... yeah, so I think it was pretty much the... anyway, I mean, if I could call it a brand. I mean, I think at that time, it was only Eris Industries who was...

SPEAKER_01: Right, yeah, Eris.

SPEAKER_00: Who later became Monax. This is Marmot, Marmot. They did some nice work, by the way. But yes, Ethersphere was the home of maybe most of our work, and then you can committing through that to the code base.

SPEAKER_01: So that was yourself, Daniel Nagy, Zsolt Felföldi.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, Zsolt Felföldi. He was already hired to work on the light client. I think it was in 2015 already. And yeah, because he was not on DevCon Zero. But yeah, DevCon Zero was already confirmed and it's where I saw Danny and me joining. By that time, there was quite a bit of, yeah, quite a bit of Barcelona and with him, I think.

SPEAKER_01: So maybe, could you say a bit about Swarm? Because my understanding is that some of the ideas went an awful long way back.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. So I don't know if you remember, there was in May, May 2014, there was a seminar, you know, trial of talks in the, I think it was in Whitechapel somewhere, or somewhere in East London. And in that talk, that was the first appearance of Web3 in the scene, in the Ethereum context. There was, like, memories usually explained, and the founders really realized how decentralization can basically also be extended then to support the entire, the backend of the entire web. And basically, if you extend it to the data, app data, and then hosting, and to basically put the data layer on top, and then maybe the messaging, then you can conceive of it as the word computer with this holy trinity of, you know, you can see them like the Ethereum blockchain as the word computer's CPU and the highest hard disk would be Swarm and then Whisper would be the kind of messaging layer.

SPEAKER_01: So you were mentioning Whitechapel, so that was again, some meetups, was it?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, yes. And I think maybe the foundation even had some sort of co-working or some sort of high-end office there, maybe a room or two, because we often found Vitalik there. So I'm not entirely sure how this works out. I don't want to say anything.

SPEAKER_01: Would that have been... There were a lot of internal meetings as well.

SPEAKER_00: There were a lot of internal meetings as well.

SPEAKER_01: Would that have been when that kind of famous diagram would first have surfaced? You know, the one with, like, the circle and the apps coming in at the side?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, that was just about that time, yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Including QML, I saw. So it was not just HTML. It was QML and Qt as other anticipated tech platforms.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, so that's when Web3 was born. It's kind of the crazy protocol names like after the ETH, which is also kind of this letter in Icelandic.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, yeah, the thorn. Yes, exactly.

SPEAKER_00: And so then that's when this and then SHH was invented also, Vitalik's gimmicks, the those Ethereum...

SPEAKER_01: Well, the sub protocols, right? Protocols running on a common basis, but Ethereum was just one of many related protocols.

SPEAKER_00: And that's where really I was very dedicated to this whole Ethereum at the time. I really kind of understood what it means to have the entire kind of Turing complete computation being secured on its own with the blockchain. And I kind of really envisioned quite a change in how the internet works if you have Swarm and then Whisper and all these things. So I quite liked the idea. And then later I kind of learned that, you know, not only did they socialize on BitTorrent at the time, but actually some of us, like Daniel, operating a DC++ node, had some legal troubles. Maybe we can also kind of talk about this with him at some point. So that's kind of brought us, so we were quite directly in the realm of implementing Swarm. This idea of a decentralized storage and maybe an incentivization, et cetera, and a native solution on Ethereum. It's a little connected.

SPEAKER_01: And Zoltán mentioned to me that he thought that the idea for Swarm had gone back to at least 2011?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, so there was this idea of... I mean, of course, I don't know about that, but it was mainly done in his idea that if he... I mean, he saw the amazing works of BitTorrent. They also saw some drawbacks. So maybe historically it's best to derive the whole idea of Swarm from them. Because BitTorrent had difficulty starting a download, because of all these throttling moves, and of course didn't have the proper incentives to keep the data. And also, of course, had the problem with the individual bits of the file not being addressable right away. You had to use a tracker to resolve them. And, of course, that's also a problem with how much privacy there is in the balance. Because, I mean, as you remember, you know, for example, in Germany, there was legal prosecution for who used BitTorrent.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, I didn't know that.

SPEAKER_00: I mean, not that time, but much later. So I think what Daniel was trying to do is give up an idea of how to chunk things. In a way, every chunk is kind of content addressable. And also kind of that some of the placement of chunks is also part of the DHT. So normally a DHT, like a decentralized, or like this distributed hash table, it's basically the idea that you put node IDs and then kind of chunk or like or IDs of content basically in the same space and somehow you get information with location, like who to download it from, about these body chunks from the neighborhoods that have the same, that have the same address or like yeah similar address. So there's usually a metric on this and if you use the logarithmic distance like that then you can work with Kademlia and then it's gonna mean that works. You can iterate through the peers, like you keep a few peers connected, and you go in a whole way. So do you know closer one to this guy, to this guy, and when this guy is like the hash of Star Wars, and you want to watch Star Wars, and then you call him up, and ultimately you see what the chunks are, where the chunks are we can download from. So obviously this is not very private. And also kind of, it's not very, as you know from this kind of legal problems that it's also not very really deniable. So if you have a, if you kind of enforce a certain chunks should reside, so you kind of enforce a kind of storage layer on top of it, then you can possibly deny that you know anything about it. It's just a system that enforces that parts of parts of the Star Wars story. So basically, it was Daniel's genius idea that I think we call it the DPA, Decentralized Preimage Archive. It's basically an archive of pre-images. Pre-images is a piece of data that the image of which is the hash yet, the pre-image is what's before the hashing, the actual piece of the data. And so this idea of actually storing not the location, but the actual data at the place in the DHT, has direct DHT interpretation, was the DPA. And that was kind of a very important, very important notion that came and then became very important in Swarm. And then, yeah, and then a lot of other things came. So I remember when we were in the 2015 or 2014, I'm not sure. And in the winter, they were sitting in the Arena Plaza in Budapest, the three of us, with Fefe, talking about this and how to start implementing it. Because there was a pressure to obviously implement the whole thing using UDP as the networking stack because it was considered that TCP is too heavy and too slow. But then obviously that at the time you already had the devP2P protocol, it's very very easy to implement it and then try this protocol. So I suggested that we should instead of using UDP, just use TCP, but use it for forwarding, keep alive some connections, these are connections, these are permanent connections, with the PSN, and just use the Kademlia with the, through the live connections that each forwarding like, in which locally decide to forward to the closer node, and ultimately backward, like if you forward the request and you backward the chunk. And so it was, it seemed like very easy to implement, and we did exactly that. Turned out to be one of the best and most interesting choices of Swarm. It turns out that that's what allows peer-to-peer accounting to be working, and also gives the privacy features that Swarm has. Basically, it's the originator of the request, if you think about it, no one knows that when someone there is asking you something, that they want to watch the Star Wars or someone upstream wants to watch Star Wars. Also, it directly solved the opportunistic caching problem, how to distribute automatically popular content, retrieval paths, all the forwarding peers can just remember some chunks. It's very interesting how these ideas started. And then basically we kind of coalesced in 2016. I think the first, the very first release of Phil Wittrich in Geth, 1.5. I'm not sure of the... one second. So it was December 2016, it was. Yes. And this Alpha Public pilot was released. And I remember there was already kind of how we viewed video. We call it streaming, but it's actually not video. I'm streaming it like just the video file. There was nice tweets about that, too.

SPEAKER_01: And just to take a step back, so I mean, my understanding of a primary thought that there was with Swarm was that because you could have this holy trinity, right, of sort of like decentralized compute database, the blockchain, Swarm for the decentralized file system and storage and then Whisper for that decentralized messaging that you could have this really nice kind of synergy of say a primary issue which is still really not solved of saying well how do you like host the web front end, right? You know, to make a whole application, yes, you need your smart contracts and your transactions and things, but you need like an application wrapping around that. So really the thought that if you had a decentralized storage mechanism that could store like the HTML and the JavaScript and so on, that you want, like, an incentive system so that that stuff is available if people want it, you know, that you don't have a tragedy of the commons where only most popular content is available. But also, because if you're building on Ethereum, you've got the cryptocurrency to do the incentives. You've got the smart contract system that allows you to implement those incentive systems. And all of these things can fit together into a like a holistic, unstoppable whole, right, of saying, oh, here you go. You've got your applications, which cannot be stopped. But that's the full stack. And it seems even now that there's an awful lot of stuff which is dependent on centralized hosted services. And it's very central.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I am pretty sad about this, to be honest. I mean, there's a lot of these things. I don't know if you remember, there was this big, I don't know, was it Bybit? That kind of lost the biggest crypto heist ever because of the Safe, you know, what? If that had been using Swarm, then it must be much more difficult to change all these kind of transactions under the hood because they had to, what they had to do is like they hacked the person, the dev's account and then uploaded something through S3, which then make the Safe wallet used. And of course, these are much more difficult to do if these things are, the content addresses are of course registered. This is how these things work. Like, you know, you start from the blockchain, you start seeing the source of truth, ENS or services as a name. You resolve it to content hash, and then the content hash is retrieved from the Swarm, from these decentralized stores.

SPEAKER_01: And I mean, again, that 2016 kind of era was when ENS was coming to life as well. So, yeah, I mean, that's another important part.

SPEAKER_00: Actually, Nick Johnson was first part of the Swarm team. As part of the Swarm team, he developed the ENS, and then later took off, and then he pivoted to the ENS.

SPEAKER_01: I didn't know he worked on Swarm. I knew he was part of the Geth team, but he did some Swarm as well, eh?

SPEAKER_00: Well, definitely. I recruited him, to be honest.

SPEAKER_01: Fantastic. Did you know him in London?

SPEAKER_00: No, no, no. I mean, he was just part of the community. He was a very, very valuable contribution to the community. Yeah, to Swarm.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, let me just check the timeline. But I think he got hired really pretty soon after me. I started in February 2016, and I think he was maybe June. Same kind of time as Hudson.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Let's see. So, yeah, I started in February. Greg Colvin in March. Everett Hildenbrandt in April. And, yeah, June, both Hudson and Jamie Pitts and Nick Johnson. All June 2016. Yeah. What was I going to mention? So yeah, you talked about DevCon Zero. So that was November 2014 in Berlin. I imagine, was that the first time that you will have met quite a number of these people?

SPEAKER_00: Absolutely. Actually, yeah. Especially memorable is my meeting with Alex Leverington.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, yes.

SPEAKER_00: The devP2P fame. Yeah. Interesting. We had lots of discussions. Yeah. He was very adamant and very stubborn with his own way of thinking about the protocol. I have to say, he was much more knowledgeable than I was at the time, so I was trying to learn a lot from him. But at the same time, I was looking at how he was trying to be a bit more pragmatic and trying to be savvy, and then I have to simplify. And I remember, at first, basically brought together the kind of specs for the protocol. And then that was not really followed. It was a very interesting time.

SPEAKER_01: Well, I mean, the other piece there is that libP2P as part of Protocol Labs, IPFS, that already existed at that time. So that was kind of interesting, right? This whole devP2P, libP2P.

SPEAKER_00: I mean, you know how Ethereum kind of suffers from this kind of... What's the word for this? Not invented here syndrome?

SPEAKER_01: Not invented here syndrome.

SPEAKER_00: Thank you, thank you. Like you know the RLP stuff, right? Like then we have that one on a serialization protocol, like the devP2P as well. I have to say that devP2P at some point was pretty kind of a lean, excellent, for the purposes of including it in Swarm, for example. It's a lot less bloated, but of course it had a lot of problems in terms of maintenance. It's just not appropriate to start like that and build everything from scratch. In retrospect, it was probably not the best idea, to be honest. But hey.

SPEAKER_01: And I mean, that's got stuck in the execution clients forever. You know, the consensus clients now are using libP2P and aren't using RLP anymore. But the execution client got stuck with devP2P forever. And I mean, I remember having discussions with various people on this in sort of 2016 of saying, well, you could have both protocols, you know, people looking at sort of, could you do a bridge protocol so that some of the stuff could run over libP2P and you can have like relay nodes? Really with the thought that you like libP2P, you could run in a browser, right? You know, devP2P you could never run in a browser. And so, like, was working with somebody from the Parity team, maybe Robert, around maybe a little later, 2017, 2018, of trying to see, well, can we get a light client in browser talking to all of these things? But it never quite happened. Some of these decisions just last forever.

SPEAKER_00: It was only after the Swarm left the foundation is when we kind of switched to the libP2P as well. We started a big client development.

SPEAKER_01: Right, right. I was, yeah, I wasn't aware that that transition had happened. So, I mean, DevCon Zero, so that was, you know, that was late 2014. But, you know, things continued, obviously, through 2015 all the way up to the July launch.

SPEAKER_00: At the time, Swarm was just an idea which was kind of mainly meant to be specced out or who has started by Daniel, who had this kind of very interesting and passed into the decentralized storage and he actually presented his vision of that at DevCon Zero. Yeah. Very good early capturing on this idea.

SPEAKER_01: And at that point he got hired in and...

SPEAKER_00: You know, that became a real thread of official development within the Ethereum stack around... sorry?

SPEAKER_01: Sorry, who? Daniel Nagy?

SPEAKER_00: Yes. And then slowly, slowly, kind of organically became a little bit of a sub-team after that. And so after that, Fefe never really contributed. It was the first bit to change. I think he was even programmed before it still came.

SPEAKER_01: He was telling me that he thought that was what he would be doing when he was hired in.

SPEAKER_00: But then almost immediately Jeff told him, yeah, no, you're not, you're just doing, you're just working on Geth. Yes, I mean, we have insider for to develop the incentivized light client protocol. He worked on for many, many years and it's a bit sad that it never took off. But yeah, well, I mean, it's tough.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, that's my interest in that is where my own journey started. Because when I kind of got interested in Ethereum, the first thing I wanted to do was I was really into mobile and wearables at that time. So I wanted to see, can I run an Ethereum node on my smartwatch? So I was doing ARM Linux cross builds of cpp-ethereum. And my thought at that time was, okay, you know, light client is still getting worked out, but I'll get a full client working on all these devices. And then when light client, you know, comes out, they'll just work, right? So I can run a full client on a testnet, make sure it all works. But, you know, it's just a matter of time. You know, of course, we'll have light clients and of course, everything will scale. And of course, you can run all things on any devices, right? You know, we're thinking every phone is, you know, you're just going to have an Ethereum node running, every router, media box.

SPEAKER_00: And we're still suffering the kind of RPC and then centralized access, right? How unstoppable is that?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, it will just, you know, it will just come with every Linux distro. You know, it will just be like a service that's just part of the Linux distro, you know, just get shipped. You've just got this background service that, you know, that is just talking Ethereum. You know, and it'd be the same as like having, you know, a network stack or an audio stack or whatever. It's just like, yeah, you're gonna have a consensus stack and, you know, it'll just like run in the background and just work. Like, cheap and easy. Yeah. Not quite happened.

SPEAKER_00: 10 years in, I mean, it's kind of made me, these things are starting, like, I don't know if you know, the D-Boot project, for example, like...

SPEAKER_01: No, what's that?

SPEAKER_00: How to boot from Swarm. Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Booting from Swarm.

SPEAKER_00: Yes. I mean, they're just building the kind of UEFI client that can bring up kind of any operating system.

SPEAKER_01: Wow. Okay, that's interesting.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, interesting. I mean, it's not worked out fully yet, but the guys are really...

SPEAKER_01: I mean, there's a fair bit of, like, you know, networking stuff that would have to happen before you could even start, right? Like that's having to have some kind of bootstrapping little mini OS or something.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. And it seems that even before that you can do it, you know, just, yeah. I mean, they already have that kind of bandwidth, kind of a small Linuxoid environment is created and they moved from that to interesting things and they can do it just with the...

SPEAKER_01: Mm-hmm. So, I mean, through those early years prior to mainnet launch, you'd mentioned work on the yellow paper. So, I mean, how was it being determined what feature complete, what good enough looks like? Had you got a good idea of what you'd have to have before launch could happen?

SPEAKER_00: I mean, well, I didn't have a clear idea, really, because it took me a while to understand the full system. I'm very honest with you. It's like, I think it's only Jeff who really, really opens it up. Where he already knew what was needed to be built. And he was building massive things on his own, single-handedly. It's really, really crazy. Not so good experience, but I was assigned the task of building the block pool, which was supposed to be like, you know, the one that takes the blocks from the other clients, builds up the header chain, and kind of validates it, et cetera. And I was working a lot on that, and every time he had enough and said, okay, I just build it, and basically one or two days and it was done. And it was an interesting experience.

SPEAKER_01: And Christoph Jentzsch was, you know, building the cross-client tests as well. Did you do work with those tests yourselves? You, sorry, I mean?

SPEAKER_00: No, I did myself, but yeah, I remember he was always running and so I remember.

SPEAKER_01: So we're in sort of July 2015, we had the arrival of Ming Chan and shortly afterwards, you know, pretty serious budget cuts because within that year or so the foundation had managed to pretty much burn through the vast majority of the money.

SPEAKER_00: Austerities I think was the official name of that. Yeah, I remember. And that time when Vitalik basically said that priority is not going to be Swarm. What's going to be is maybe some, maybe if you just kind of use IPFS and let's start to work on the incentive system that we can put on that.

SPEAKER_01: Okay.

SPEAKER_00: And I remember that, maybe it's not the secret anymore, but Jeff kind of let us keep working on Swarm through this period with. So we did. And then, and there is enough to kind of, there was a basically ready, ready incentivization scheme for the bandwidth incentives. It's also very interesting because Swarm seems to be one of the only, one of the only systems like this internet storage system that has a proper bandwidth incentive, a proper accounting system like this. It's difficult for that accounting and it seems like, it's probably conjecture, but it doesn't look like there's any other proper way to do this. Because if you think about bandwidth, first of all, it's a kind of instant gratification thing. You can forward for someone, like you write a server request or not. So it's not like the shady territory of like a future promise, like storage. You have to record your deal on the chain and like, you know, some proof of availability, et cetera. But here bandwidth is just much more, much more kind of, yeah, it seems like easier. Swap by just peer-to-peer accounting that, you know, I forward for you, you forward for me, and then we just relate for each other, and if there's a big tilt, then some sort of quantization should happen. But I'm not sure, maybe it's not even, has to be some settlement around it. I'm just, and then maybe we kind of like this idea, this also kind of, that is genius, that came up in this kind of checkbook idea. It's basically an early version of like, hmm, sort of payment chain like micropayment solution. And yeah, so that bandwidth incentive was a very powerful one. It lived on long. And then I remember that kind of, it seemed that the incentivization for storage was much more difficult the way to arrive at. There was the negative incentives. How to solve the problem of pricing and the growth and who's responsible for who, what. And if it's everything recorded on chain, how to attend the privacy of things. It's very, very difficult. So it came much, much, much, much later. I kind of worked out that part as well. It was only after, after the token, Swarm token, was released 2021.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah.

SPEAKER_00: Well anyway, so yeah, going back to the next to the roots, yeah, the austerities.

SPEAKER_01: So you were continuing to work through late 2015, even though it had supposedly been defunded?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, kind of, yes. We were trying to figure out this incentive, of course, and in that sense, we were, of course, off track in a way. And I was also kind of working at the time on the Go Ethereum client on many aspects of it. And by 2017, the kind of Swarm client was kind of integrated, and that was released within Go Ethereum. It was in 2018, when the Swarm concept three release was part of Geth. And then it's kind of when the Swarm client was starting out, it started as a standalone Swarm client.

SPEAKER_01: Starting 2018, you said?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: So all the way through until that point, you were continuing to work as a sort of a Geth team member?

SPEAKER_00: Yes. I mean, officially we were part of the Geth Go Ethereum team. It's part of the Amsterdam entity. Yeah, slowly, slowly, kind of extending the team as the protocol got some movement. So, yeah, it was interesting times because I remember in 2016, when after Nick Johnson left, we kind of hired some other people on the protocol. And then, yeah, that's when kind of Daniel and I emerged as the team leaders, the type of organically trying to put together the threads.

SPEAKER_01: And so with the Swarm Foundation, how and when did that happen? And how did you come to, you know, kind of, you know, leave the Geth team, I guess?

SPEAKER_00: Well, so it was 2018, autumn, actually, 2018, summer, I and a person called Albert came and started to offer the help for Swarm. They were kind of asking what we need. They seemed very helpful.

SPEAKER_01: And then the next... Albert Ni is this?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, I think so.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, who had basically joined the Ethereum Foundation at the same time as Aya.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, Aya was very, very, very... I mean, you know, to be honest, I'm on very good terms with Ming and Vitalik as well. But when Aya came, she seemed very, very helpful and tried to solve some staffing problems and things. But the negotiations started, and I'm here. And after that, it seems that by Prague, we kind of get into some serious discussions. And then after that, we kind of, I think it was right at the last day of the Prague DevCon, we submitted the proposal for funding, immediate funding. And then it was very interesting because I never really got any serious feedback on that. I was always a bit wondered, like, what's going to happen? And then there were some issues that went on with Sean O'Connor. This is a point of contact delegated by Aya.

SPEAKER_01: Who, sorry?

SPEAKER_00: Sean O'Connor.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, there was the delegated point of contact for us, the Swarm team. And then slowly, slowly, like after that, I think there's a kind of totally, the EF structure changed a bit, and that's when every team needed to submit a kind of proposal and all kinds of things. It's a kind of this whole scheme started of like trying to graduate some of the other teams and some of the protocols after the foundation. Yeah, we have to have them get individual funding and then kind of reach the gap with some grants. And then that's what happened with Swarm as well. So after, I remember 2019, there was a Swarm summit in Madrid, which was very, very successful. We had a lot of partnerships. We subscribed to some monetary help as well. And then the foundation also promised to back it up. And somehow that never happened, so we kind of resorted to launching our own token, which we did in 2021. And it's already been one year into the new Swarm client, like the Bee client.

SPEAKER_01: And yes, so when we launched the token, I mean, was that the same sort of time as your code base became independent? Did that kind of coincide that you're like, right, we're an independent thing, we're going to make a new client, we're going to switch to libP2P and it's not going to be integrated in directly with Geth? Were those happening at the same time or did the tech happen earlier?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, not really. I think the Swarm code base was taken out of the Geth field quite a bit before, so I think I'm not even sure when, but I think it was POC 4, I think. And when it was taken out, I think it was, yeah, it was too experimental, I guess, or something. Anyway, it's not a very good idea to mix the two. And then we were able to conduct a very separate development scheme and agenda.

SPEAKER_01: And I guess maybe Nick Johnson's sort of experience with spinning out ENS and the ENS Foundation, that would have preceded yours. So perhaps you were looking to that as a pattern.

SPEAKER_00: Sorry, we're getting some really bad audio. Can you maybe move a little closer?

SPEAKER_01: Can you hear me now?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, that's better.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, ENS is very inspiring. And then we did get some grants from the foundation, and also kind of bridging grant. And then, as I said, somehow, somehow, it never materialized with that kind of program, that budget that we put together with the team. But ultimately, we made it. And then we had our own foundation in Switzerland, which started as an association, a small association, which kind of issued tokens, which is a token, and yeah, another new year of funding.

SPEAKER_00: One thing we skipped over maybe we can just quickly go back to is DevCon One. So that was in London in November 2015. So I assume you were there. What are your memories of that event?

SPEAKER_01: I just recently re-watched it and I remember I was doing pretty much, kind of very sick already. I don't know if you know, but I was diagnosed with Parkinson's in 2009, 15 years ago. And when I did DevCon One, I was not very, it was not very easy to follow. And here, I don't know, like, literally, a little bit, I was a bit surprised. I didn't remember at the time that I was so sick, such a difficult in terms of my movement. And so I'm sorry for the maybe unsolicited diversion. But yes, as for the content, I remember that we had a very, very successful presentation of Swarm. There was a lot of interest at the time. I was in Shanghai at the second.

SPEAKER_00: I mean, I was looking back at, you're saying you're looking back, I was looking back at some DevCon One videos recently. And like, I guess my takeaway looking back is so many ideas were presented, you know, by that point. Nearly anything that you can think of in all the different areas, it seemed that somebody was working on that. You know, you'd got this real flourishing of people building on Ethereum by that point, you know. Like anything you could imagine seemingly was presented there.

SPEAKER_01: I remember when I came in. Because we always thought that from next year, we're going to have always wonderful decentralized services, like decentralized delivery, or Just Eat, or whatever you call it, like decentralized eBay, decentralized Uber, and Airbnb, and all kinds of things. And of course, and then, you know, of course, they all need their kind of Swarm-like thing or distributional and sort of scalable data. They are behind it. That came much, much later.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Many of them like five or 10 years too early.

SPEAKER_01: Yes. And yeah, so this is definitely what happened to Swarm. Like if it did not realize much, much later, it has.

SPEAKER_00: But now at least it's working. So, so, yeah. But can you talk a little bit about where Swarm is now, what's happening and how's the functionality?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, so we have a very solid network and we can consolidate the, we've had the narrow definition of the protocol, so basically it's kind of like the distributed chunk store definition, where nodes communicate basically, and then they distribute the chunks. It's kind of a storage model, as well as a distribution network. And it has rather strong privacy properties, which are quite unique. And I mean, we use kind of older analogies like the checkbook and postage stamp. Postage stamp is something that you attach to a chunk with some data to keep it alive. And it's kind of a hot wallet in a way. It's kind of when you put some money on it, some storage rent gets deduced and it runs out of funds, you know, your content is live and it is available hot. And... Yeah, so I mean, on the way we can, very early on we implemented kind of this manifest idea. The manifest is basically just a matching of, like mapping of strings to documents, which you can use as a kind of key-value store, but sitemap, but also kind of a directory tree, right? So basically you can, that way implement directories and files. And that was the first extension. Let's go higher level here. And we were already talking about erasure codes and stuff back in 2016. We got only implemented maybe two or three years ago. And it's kind of a very interesting concept of how we can implement it in the erasure codes. But yeah, so there's also this kind of thing called ACT, which is like the access control mechanism that allows you to manage the grantees that can access the file or directory. So we basically have a way to get to the encryption key, the encrypted content. And one of the very interesting stuff in Swarm, maybe one of the very interesting features, is how you handle the mutability. It's kind of single owner chunks or feeds, Swarm feeds. And it's basically kind of some sub block ENS. So basically, the integrity of the chunk is not by the content, but actually by some kind of semantic convention. Let's say like, okay, it's my website. It's like, you know, let's see. This is something that you can guess. My CV is then hashed together with your address. The mutable content is actually, has attestation by signature. So that's the signature, which is the integrity of the chunk. And that's how we handle the mutable content. And it's also this, it's great for kind of quickly changing stuff like databases and things.

SPEAKER_00: I mean, where would you say Swarm, as of 2025, sits and compares with, you know, say, IPFS plus Filecoin or Arweave or others? How do they differ and... You know, what kind of usage?

SPEAKER_01: You're asking me, you probably got the technical answer of how it compares.

SPEAKER_00: Well, let's keep it light.

SPEAKER_01: If I am a dumb end user... No, I know, but what I'm saying is that it's difficult. Not to mention that in terms of, for example, adoption or in terms of even familiarity.

SPEAKER_00: Maybe in terms of adoption and just like top line features perhaps that one has and another doesn't.

SPEAKER_01: So IPFS is obviously very widely used also in the Ethereum realm. It's a, it was always a very, very good and relatively simple architecture, easy to understand. I think it's, it, I mean, if you compare it to Swarm who likes the previous features, it definitely likes the previous features as well as the incentives really. I mean, you know, you can say that you can build stuff and therefore get it preserved, but those pinning services are actually quite centralized. So it's like, and then there's also kind of attackable in a way.

SPEAKER_00: Does Filecoin work? Is that a real thing now?

SPEAKER_01: Filecoin kind of does it in some way. It's mainly good for archival and you have very strong, they kind of, a killer feature is the availability proofs, which actually work for proving that whatever you store there is available in various replicas, which is not an obvious thing to do at all, and it's very good, but... I don't want to kind of mock it, but there is an internet meme of someone taking a magnetic tape out into an envelope, and it says, like, someone retrieving stuff from Filecoin. So obviously, if you don't have any kind of retrieval protocol, or like hot retrieval layer with incentivization with some sort of SLA layer attached to it, then it's a bit difficult to evaluate the proposition there. I mean, of course, since then, there was a lot of trials, and then since then, it's changed, and there's also kind of, there's been also attempts to link it to IPFS, which is itself a distribution platform. So yeah, it doesn't show. And I think it's a bit of an overkill in terms of these incentives, of the availability proofs. And it also kind of suffers some of the previous issues as well. You have to negotiate the market of storage. In Swarm, Swarm is very, very different in that sense. The positive incentives, it's just you get rewards for storing the chunks that belong to your neighborhood. And the pricing and the redistribution of the kind of postage stamp revenue, as you... And there's no extra days that you file or anything somewhere. Chunks are always distributed across many neighborhoods, and whatever belongs to you, the node operators get rewarded for. And distribution can have a nice property of centralized pricing. Basically, that can be sensitive to some sort of supply signals that we can bring itself. So it has this nice method of checking supply and therefore set the price based on that. That type of model. I mean, the question is whether it works at all, and some of the assumptions might not hold. But in terms of its bandwidth incentive, and in terms of the positive storage incentives, and also the privacy properties, I would say it's quite an advanced framework. I mean, apart from all the obvious goodies that we talked about, like addressing and kind of URL-based addressing and what we call the REST storage and balanced distribution chunks, and then also there's a lot of, especially that the monetary incentives is what drives the thing from bottom up. So I think there's some voices in the community that don't take very seriously this kind of monetary incentives. And they think that maybe altruism is really not that bad. And I kind of understand where they're coming from. However, we take it seriously that the monetary incentive, having someone behind a node client, it's kind of modeled by a rational profit maximizing agent. And then it's kind of relatively of maximizing your profit into something that's generally very, very usable on the network level emerges as a kind of intelligent system that can serve other purposes. And this is what the incentive design, this is what Ethereum is amazing at. It can express with the smart contracts what is kind of self-enforcing contracts, how they can express a beautiful incentive system. And for example, in Swarm, it takes very seriously that all kinds of strategic decisions that clients can make, that basically not, that doesn't lead to kind of immediate disconnect because of a syntax problem or like something more primitive violation. These should be incentivized, at least doing anything else than what the protocol dictates should not get a better reward. So basically, at least you lose money. All the way from the connectivity, how you connect and how you forward stuff, and all the strategy of what you can serve, what you achieve, what you cache. And all this kind of stuff are properly incentivized.

SPEAKER_00: So let me ask you one last big question. Looking back over these 10 years, have things happened as you thought they might? What you thought Ethereum was at the start, has that been what it's become? Looking back on these 10 years, what are your big reflections on this journey?

SPEAKER_01: Interesting question. So well, it seems it's still very, very close to my heart in a way. But apart from the heart being sentimental, from the sentimental approach, I also have something that it definitely fulfills many of its early promises and maybe some of them are kind of maturing a bit slower than I would have wanted. I mean, just to think of the proof of stake which was supposed to come after maybe a few years and then it kind of happened. And then, but you know, I mean, some things take a while to even develop, to even conceptualize properly. And yes, I mean, of course, some of these earlier ambitions of proper apps being, of Swarm, sorry, like the Swarm Ethereum apps, of course, didn't materialize in May. Or I would say that they're not considered as properly materialized, because I think you have Web3 app is as Web3 as the weakest link of it, yeah. So if you have anything that's not so decentralized in a stack, like, I mean, just think of the easiest examples of Tornado Cash, but using infrastructure.

SPEAKER_00: Right, right.

SPEAKER_01: I forgot to say that, but, you know, and if you read it did block Tornado Cash, and it was obviously illegal to use in the US and... But I mean, we still suffer from some of these early neglects, like neglecting clients, neglecting the whole proofs and verification. It's a bit surprising, some of this to me, and it's worth facing that, you know, we're talking about Web3, but it's actually, it's actually just, you know, we talk through our RPC, and then, which is kind of centralized, and then we talk NFTs, and then all this kind of stuff, but we, I mean, as Moxie Marlinspike, the blog, put it like, he actually showed when, when I don't know, you can see that the NFT that he created turns into a poop image.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, yes.

SPEAKER_01: So you know, it's kind of, I mean, he of course, it's fun, it's okay to poke fun. I mean, we all part of this. And of course, you know, some of these things might be a promise of maybe a Swarm of something that we might have missed and therefore kind of lagging behind with some of these overall ecosystem promises. But I don't know. But instead of lamenting on this, I just keep on trying to share some positive energies into this constructive action and this stuff. So in this way, I'm kind of... In general, my approach can be described as a sort of punk image that I'm relatively optimistic about the future of it. And I think this unstoppability is kind of unstoppable now. It's really not possible to slow it down. And I really hope that when people get it, they don't necessarily follow this kind of stupid regulations curbing the uses of it and instead just...

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. Okay, well, thanks so much and all the very best.

SPEAKER_01: Okay, thank you very much. It was lovely to talk to you and reminisce about the past.

SPEAKER_00: You too. Okay, thanks so much. Bye-bye.