SPEAKER_01: So hello, I am Bob Summerwill, and this is Early Days of Ethereum with my good friend Viktor Trón. So hi Viktor, how are you?

SPEAKER_00: Very, very well, thank you. Hello Bob, thank you for inviting me to the show. It's wonderful.

SPEAKER_01: Well, great to have you here. So yeah, we bumped into each other in Buenos Aires for DevConnect, and I hoped to record there, but for one reason or another that never happened, so good to connect with you online instead. So talking about early days of Ethereum, you were very early in Ethereum. So I mean, what were you doing in your life prior to that that led you to the project? And then work-wise, I was a...

SPEAKER_00: Not exactly. I wouldn't say I was exactly very close to the crypto scene, to be honest. I was working on a project with the BBC News Labs, basically a News Juicer project. It's kind of a project where we were trying to ingest a lot of news sources, like from old photo archives, video archives, and everything, and kind of juice it. Basically work through speech recognition and everything, categorize it, and we made it searchable in a very nice way. I mean, of course, it's one of these BBC-sponsored projects. No one really needed them. It was never really used, but it was a nice project to work on. And anyway, so I kind of left the job at that time.

SPEAKER_01: You were in London? You were living in London?

SPEAKER_00: So yeah, I was in London. I was living in London. And I left the job because I found Ethereum. I was very excited right away. So when, I guess it was when Gavin visited this kind of Web, new Web meetup, I'm sorry, I think it was a New Web meetup, and then presented Ethereum, I was absolutely taken aback, and I thought it was amazing and a game-changer. And I mean, what led me to it, to be honest, it was already quite a bit into Bitcoin, which is kind of interesting. Because Bitcoin came into my life through a friend who I knew from an anarchist club, or anarchist Facebook group, basically. So he introduced me to it on ideological grounds. But of course, I was very interested in tech as well. But it took me quite a while to understand what blockchain is, how all these things come together. But by that time I was kind of solid in understanding the blockchain, and my mindset was solid enough so that I could question, question Gavin and then Vitalik. That is absolutely not going to work, obviously, because of this whole thing problem. And, you know, and bit by bit, when I understood that they all had answers to every question that I could ever think of, then that's when I got convinced that they're probably the geniuses I really, I really can want to look up to and have, have a, in my biography to learn from. It was a very, very, very great start. And so when Gavin presented the whitepaper, next day I was already hacking on the C++ codebase actually, and had my first PR in. We met in a cafe in Dalston, I think. I remember it was quite impressive that I learned how to use Mac, but actually was running Linux OS on it. It was very impressive already.

SPEAKER_01: And you mentioned your anarchist group there. So had Bitcoin earlier been interesting to you from that kind of monetary, you know, anarchist, libertarian perspective?

SPEAKER_00: I have to say yes. I have to say yes. I mean, when Bitcoin came, this was the time when I even kind of learned what money was really. I mean, before I didn't even grasp this notion. And it was very important times in my life. I mean, it was really a game changer to kind of have a framework in which I could totally identify myself with. And yeah, libertarian, I don't know if it's the right word, but I really like this kind of Austrian view of economy. And I have understood what, how our money was used and what inflation was. I never really understood before. It was okay. I came late to the game, let's say. Let's say that. But, yeah. And then it was all very...

SPEAKER_01: Was a history after, and the next Web meeting that you mentioned, was that a recurring meetup that you were going to, or were you regularly going to kind of Web meetup? Yes, but yes, but this one particularly, I saw that because I saw Vitalik's presentation in Miami and so...

SPEAKER_00: So that really got me interested, so I knew what I was in for, and I went and showed up for that meeting in Hoxton Square, I think it was, that meeting.

SPEAKER_01: Sorry, you said Vitalik's presentation, was that the one that he'd given in Miami?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, exactly, Miami conference. And there was a... So I kind of, I knew what, I knew already what I expect from it, but of course I never really understood, and Gavin helped me quite a bit to understand it. So it was really great.

SPEAKER_01: Were you watching a variety of Bitcoin conference talks? Was that a sort of a regular thing that you were doing at that point, watching YouTube?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, at the time I was very, very interested and very much into these things. I mean, you know, I was hoping that, you know, changes related to this kind of technologies would come a lot earlier. I was already... I was sold in the hype a bit, or contributed to it myself in a way.

SPEAKER_01: Had you been sort of following along with things like MasterCoin and Colored Coins and other sort of Bitcoin 2.0 projects?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, actually I did, yeah. I think it was... there was MasterCoin, and there was... and then Open Transactions, which was very close to Gavin's heart, I think. He worked together with them. And yeah, I don't know what came after that after all, but interesting. And then, so after I left the BBC and was running that... Winter she spent in Thailand, half in the retreat, and then in my spare time I was working on the yellow paper and with my way through the really hard notation and getting put in the paper. Yes, a lot of people struggled with that sort of math-heavy notation.

SPEAKER_01: And so you went to Gavin's presentation, which would have been very early February. So, I mean, that was only like a week or so after Vitalik's presentation in Miami. It would have been very, very close. So you spoke to Gavin there and then you exchanged emails, did you?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, basically, we exchanged emails. He put me on Skype group. There was a Skype group at the time. I think it was 20-odd people on it, really. So not a big crowd. And yeah, that's how it all started. So very nice in the beginning to discover really grandiose ideas and chat and be part of it. I'm super proud and very happy that I managed to be at the... year nearly, it's kind of a lucky move to be honest.

SPEAKER_01: So was it a fair bit later in that year that you started working with Danny on Swarm? Were you doing...

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, then it came a little bit later. So yes, first of all, in the spring, I started working on the yellow paper and then a bit on the, as I said, a bit on the C++, but not a lot. And then I think it was in March or sometime that I showed up on the first Ethereum meetup. Maybe not the first. I think you told me it was not the first, but the second one.

SPEAKER_01: In London, this is?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, yes, yes, yes.

SPEAKER_01: So this was organized by Stéphane Tual.

SPEAKER_00: Stéphane Tual there. There was Michael there, who later came from Nectar, I think. And then...

SPEAKER_01: Sorry, Michael was that, right?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, yes. And I think who I talked to quite a lot was Jack DeRose.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, of Colony.

SPEAKER_00: Colony fame, exactly. And then there is when I met Jeff first. Jeff became my boss later.

SPEAKER_01: He came to London for that meetup?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, yes, he did. And so I kind of saw that it's quite an international crowd and from all over the world kind of doing these things. So I started to take it very seriously. As I said, I kind of left my job and then joined the ranks. And I kind of started contributing to the Go codebase. And so after that, I was really into the Go. That's where I contributed most and became part of the Go Ethereum team after Jeff offered me the job around September, October that year, when the foundation was already actually paying out some salaries or recruiting people on the teams.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. So I mean, I was looking at the timing on that. So the Ethereum Foundation was founded in July of 2014, and then the crowd sale was going through July, August, September. And then, yeah, the hiring, that first wave of we've actually got some money to hire people was sort of, you know, September, October.

SPEAKER_00: In October, I was negotiating with Aaron Buchanan, I remember.

SPEAKER_01: Right, right.

SPEAKER_00: My contact then. And then, I don't know when the Amsterdam office was actually funded, but I already visited Jeff I think later in that year there. So when I first kind of joined, I was talking to my summer with my friends in Hungary, some of them related to this Facebook group, and among them like Dali, Fefe. And there was another person who was very close to Swarm later, but never actually entered the scene officially. Let him be unnamed. And so there was some thinking that maybe the four of us can form a group, and we can just join as a kind of sub-team or something. It never happened. So we were just hired individually. Yes, later that year there was DevCon Zero, is that correct?

SPEAKER_01: Yeah, yeah. I mean, if we just pop back a little bit. So through 2014, you know, prior to, you know, the sale and so on, I mean, so how were things working early in 2014? I mean, you've mentioned a Skype group where... you know, were most people kind of working through Skype?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, yes, yes. It was really mainly, mainly, everything was done by, basically, by Gavin, Jeff, and... And the rest of us were just Sherpas on the way at the time. And then just tapping out. I mean, I'm talking about the technical stuff. I'm really not sure about the admin and the foundation stuff. So I hope no offense is taken from anyone. But yeah, for tech stuff, it's... So I think it was actually... Already in July that Jeff shared a kind of boot node to do with me, and kind of introduced me to the intricacies of the then aspiring devp2p peer-to-peer protocol. And so I think that was my first project, I think, that was really kind of in the codebase that I wrote it, which was then later scrapped and completely rewritten by Felix and some of the other guys. But that was my first attempt, I think, at the kind of Go Ethereum networking layer. At the time, I was kind of trying to suggest really crazy ideas to Jeff about some developer tooling, some like, you know, contract, contract verification, and like staging and like fake blockchain environment and stuff. And it was... There were other things to do and it was focusing on maybe the end user, end user applications like the, at the time. I think it was on the Mist browser business.

SPEAKER_01: Right.

SPEAKER_00: It was a browser. And so he was kind of trying to talk me out of it and said that the other group, the C++ team is assigned to that anyway. So let me not tread on unwanted paths. And so he kind of brought me back to... Well, I mean, you had Aleth Zero, right? Aleth Zero with an earlier kind of incarnation of that. Yeah, that's good. And then there was some... Some kind of not so glorious tasks as well at the time. We factored logging and things like this. I remember in the early days. But there was also a time when I was... I was kind of really learning, learning Go, because that was also not the super popular language. There was a lot of learning to do.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, it was relatively new at that point. So you'd mentioned the yellow paper. So in those very early months of 2014, Gavin in particular seemed to be incredibly productive in terms of what he was getting through with the C++ client and that yellow paper. I mean, was it usually the code that was leading and then the yellow paper was being kind of modeled after that?

SPEAKER_00: It's hard for me to say if they really were that kind of hand-in-hand developing, I think. And I can't really tell, maybe it's better to ask him, to be honest. But yes, the productivity and actually the speed that he was churning at code was absolutely stunning. So it's like a few months after some of his clients already worked. Yeah, to be honest, I mean, Jeff was the same and Jeff was also incredible in his productivity. And those people were really, really nice examples in front of me. So I was really happy to learn from them.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. And I mean, I think that that triangulation was so important, right, of having multiple clients and the spec. And you had the Pyethapp client, though, not really to that production status, but you know, those, those three groups all, you know, gloriously...

SPEAKER_00: The statement that, you know, Ethereum was very proud of that, like, this multi-client development was leading to very, very solid specs. It was actually true, but, of course, that was not the reason, but the reason was that all these brilliant individuals just followed their own favorite language and just wanted their own clients to be built. But, you know, I mean, ultimately what came after it is amazing. The specification was really... I just remember just a few times that the specification had to be changed. There's like kind of one one case when there's like a modular operation that was not good, not exactly... It's a minus minus number, exactly not sure. Exactly. There was another one when I think it was around Easter, 2015, or something before, in the year leading to the launch. And I think that was when it was kind of a problem that the anchors had the same timestamp. I think. And that led to a fork. I remember I wrote a kind of blog post about it. Never, never published it, so it's interesting.

SPEAKER_01: Talking to Jakub Czepluch, so he was an intern at the Berlin office in 2015, but he was telling me about a hard fork that had happened on the mainnet around two weeks or so after launch, which I was completely unaware of. Um, but then looking back, um, you know, there was a sort of a security announcement by the team, was a patching of the client. Um, and while I've been doing stuff myself in terms of, like, running old clients, I, I, I saw that as well. Um, if you, if you run 1.00 or get 1.01, it gets stuck. It can't go through Frontier blocks. So it was actually a hard fork.

SPEAKER_00: Do you remember what it was related to? It was not that interesting that you remembered.

SPEAKER_01: I mean, it was some kind of gas counting or something, just some kind of little bug. But that was funny. That was a thing that I was not aware about. Because like, you know, so it was a hard fork, but it was never given a name because it was just an accident. And, uh, and you know, you wonder how many more of these little things there were that happened that sort of forgotten in the midst of time. But, um, but yeah, so, I mean, through that, through that, um, early 2014 year, you were working initially on the C++ and then later on the Go. I mean, how many people were working on Go in 2014?

SPEAKER_00: I mean, it was really just a few people around. Jeff, I think, was mainly a designer and Alex van der Sande from Brazil, and yeah, and...

SPEAKER_01: But you were the second team member then, is that right?

SPEAKER_00: Correct, just about. Maybe actually the first officially, I'm not sure. The first paid one, I'm not sure. But, I mean, we came roughly at the same time with Alex and I think with Felix.

SPEAKER_01: Right. Yeah, in terms of employment. Yeah, but I meant when you were working earlier, you know, when you started there. I mean, were there other people working on that Go Ethereum ahead of your joining in with him?

SPEAKER_00: Not really, not really. So he was... I was pretty much among the ones that contributed and the core that inspired him. And it, I mean, there, there was quite a, quite a vibrant ecosystem of, of, yeah, like it was... the violent, vibrant community of people that like making... The data became slow. It was like Nick Savers around, like super tall little dude. And we were, we were going together to the, to the, to the Bitcoin conference. I think it was in April.

SPEAKER_01: Yeah. Oh, you went to Toronto?

SPEAKER_00: No, no, it was in Amsterdam.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, okay.

SPEAKER_00: And that's when I just really talked to Vitalik quite a bit. It was very nice. And I got a big party that month, so it was a nice time. It was a nice time.

SPEAKER_01: Nick Savers is a name that I've seen a lot of times and I I've never really met or spoken to him, I guess he was around a lot early and then maybe kind of disappeared out and maybe he's a little bit of a... an unknown guy that doesn't you know show his face. Yeah, I mean he never joined, he was never... I don't think he was ever like an official Ethereum team member but he was always around and helping us. I think he was employed by some bank.

SPEAKER_01: But I saw he and some others did the first continuous integration. You know, they were doing the build system.

SPEAKER_00: Nice, nice.

SPEAKER_01: And then he did work on the Java client as well.

SPEAKER_00: That is true. And the Java client was mainly by, what was his name?

SPEAKER_01: Roman Mandala.

SPEAKER_00: It's correct, Roman Mandala, who kind of mysteriously disappeared after a few years. I'm not sure what happened to him.

SPEAKER_01: I did see him on Facebook for quite a time. He seems to have either disappeared or something since.

SPEAKER_00: I remember I still talked to him at the London DevCon, the DevCon one. Definitely around there with the whole Ethereum team. Yeah, I don't know what their name was but Ethereum Camp. That's correct. Okay, thanks, thanks for reminding us. Well nostalgic. So yeah, it was early sort, of early 2017 I think that he kind of disappeared. Um, they did Hacker Gold.

SPEAKER_01: And, you know, this is some kind of like hackathon that there was some controversy about. It looked like the team kind of like bought votes or something, but were paid out anyway. And then, yeah, he sort of disappeared with some people thinking he'd exit scammed. I'm not convinced he did. Because if he did, it was the worst, like, exit scam ever because it was so early. You know, like, it wasn't like anyone had got any kind of big amount of money or anything at that point. It was sort of a very poor scam.

SPEAKER_00: He was definitely unable to... follow the principles. So maybe... So you'd mentioned about your sort of collaborative sub-team. So that's that's Ethosphere. Well, it's kind of... It was it was a wishful thinking that might be Ethosphere. But on the other hand, I can... I did I did register that as an organization on GitHub at least and even meant... Yeah, so I think it was pretty much the... Anyway, I mean, if I could call it a brand. I mean, I think at that time, it was only Aaron Injustice who was...

SPEAKER_01: Right, yeah, Harris.

SPEAKER_00: Who later became Monax. This is Marmot, Marmot. They did some nice work, by the way. But yes, Ethosphere was the home of maybe most of our work, and then we can committing through that to the codebase.

SPEAKER_01: So that was yourself, Daniel Nagy, Zolt Feffelde.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, Zolt Feffelde. I was already hired to work on the Light client. I think it was in 2015 already. And yeah, because he was not on DevCon Zero. But yeah, DevCon Zero was already confirmed and it's where I saw Danny and me joining. By that time, there was quite a bit of, yeah, quite a bit of Barcelona with him, I think.

SPEAKER_01: So maybe, could you say a bit about Swarm? Because my understanding is that some of the ideas that went an awful long way back.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah. So I don't know if you remember, there was in May, May 2014, there was a seminar, you know, a series of talks in the, I think it was in Whitechapel somewhere, or somewhere in East London. And in that talk, that was the first appearance of Web3 in the scene, in the Ethereum context. There was, like, Amir and memories usually explained, and the founders really realized how decentralization can basically also be extended then to support the entire, the backend of the entire web. And basically, if you extend it to the data, app data, and then hosting, and to basically put the data layer on top, and then maybe the messaging, then you can conceive of it as the whole computer with this holy trinity of you know you can see them like the Ethereum blockchain as the CPU and the highest hard disk would be Swarm and then Whisper would be the kind of messaging layers. So you were mentioning Whitechapel. So that was...

SPEAKER_01: Again, some meetups, was it?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, yes. And I think maybe Theo even had some sort of co-working or some sort of high-end office there, maybe a room or two, because we often found Vitalik there. So I'm not entirely sure how this works out. I don't want to say anything. Would that have been... There were a lot of internal meetings as well.

SPEAKER_01: Would that have been when that kind of famous diagram would first have surfaced? You know, the one with, like, the circle and the apps coming in at the side?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, that was just about that time, yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Including QML, I saw. So it was not just HTML. It was QML and Qt as other anticipated tech platforms.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, so that's when Web3 was born. It's kind of the crazy protocol names like after the ETH, which is also kind of this letter in Icelandic.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, yeah, the thorn.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah.

SPEAKER_01: Yes, exactly. And so then that's when this and then was invented also the various gimmicks. The Ethereum well the sub protocols, right, protocols running on a common basis but Ethereum was just one of many related protocols.

SPEAKER_00: And that's where really I was very dedicated to this whole Ethereum at the time. I really kind of understood what it means to have the entire Turing complete computation being secured on its own with the blockchain. And I kind of really envisioned quite a change in how the internet works if you have Swarm and then Whisper and all these things. So I quite liked the idea. And then later I kind of learned that you know, not only did they socialize on BitTorrent at the time, but actually some of us, like Dani, operating a DC plus node, had some legal troubles. Maybe we can also kind of talk about this with him at some point. So that's kind of brought us... So we wrote him quite directly in the realm of implementing Swarm. This idea of a decentralized storage and maybe an incentivization, et cetera, and a neighbor solution on Ethereum. It's a little connected.

SPEAKER_01: And Zoltan mentioned to me that he thought that the idea for Swarm had gone back to at least 2011?

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, so there was this idea of... I mean, of course, I don't know about that, but it was mainly done in his idea that if he... I mean, he saw the amazing works of Petri... They also saw some drawbacks. So maybe historically it's best to derive the whole idea of Swarm from them. Because BitTorrent had difficulty starting a download because of all these throttling moves, and of course didn't have the proper incentives to keep the data. And also, of course, had the problem with the individual bits of the file not being addressable right away. You had to use a tracker to resolve them. And, of course, that's also a problem with how much previously there is in the balance. Because, I mean, as you remember, you know, For example, in Germany, there was legal prosecution for who used to be torrent.

SPEAKER_01: Oh, I didn't know that.

SPEAKER_00: I mean, not at that time, but much later. So I think what Doni was trying to do is give up an idea of how to chunk things. In a way, every chunk is kind of content addressable. And also kind of that some of the placement of chunks is also part of the DHT. So normally a DHT, like a decentralized hash table, is basically the idea that you put node IDs and then kind of chunk or like ideas of content basically in the same space and somehow you get information with location like who to download it from about these body chunks from the neighborhoods that have the same or like similar address. So there's a usually a metric on this and if you use the logarithmic distance like that then you can work with academia and then it's gonna mean that works. You can iterate through the peers, like you keep a few peers connected, and you go in a whole way. So do you know closer one to this guy, to this guy, and when this guy is like the hash of Star Wars, and you want to watch Star Wars, and then you call him up, and ultimately you see what the where the chunks are we can download from. So obviously this is not very private. So, and also kind of, it's not very, as you know from this kind of legal problems, it's also not very really deniable. So if you... And if you have a, if you kind of enforce a certain chunks should reside, so you kind of enforce a kind of storage layer on top of it, then you can possibly deny that you know anything about it. It's just a system that enforces that parts of parts of the Star Wars story. So basically, it was done as a genius idea that I think we call it the DPA, Decentralized Preimage Archive. It's basically an archive of pre-images. Pre-images is a piece of data that the image of which is the hash. The pre-image is what's before the hashing, the actual piece of the data. And so this idea of actually storing not the location, but the actual data at the place in the DHT, has direct DHT interpretation, was the DPA. And that was kind of a very important, very important notion that came and then became very important in this form. And then, yeah, and then a lot of other things came. So I remember when we were in the... in the... 2015 or 14, I'm not sure. And in the winter, they were sitting in the Arena Plaza in Budapest, the three of us, with Fefe, talking about this and how to start implementing it. Because there was a pressure to obviously implement the whole thing using UDP as the networking stack because it was considered that TCP is too heavy and too... too slow, but then obviously that at the time you already had the dev field to be protocol, it's very, very easy to implement it and then try this protocol. So I suggested that we should instead of using UDP, just use TCP, but use it for forwarding, keep alive some connections, these are connections, these are permanent connections, with the PSN, and just use the kadamia with the, through the live connections that each forwarding like, in which locally decide to forward to the closer node, and ultimately backward, like if you forward the request and you backward the chunk. And so it was, it seemed like very easy to implement, and we did exactly that. It turned out to be one of the best and most interesting choices of Swarm. It turns out that that's what allows peer-to-peer accounting to be working, and also gives the privacy features that Swarm has. Basically, it's the originator of the request, if you think about it. No one knows that when someone there is asking you something, that they want to watch the Star Wars or someone upstream wants to watch Star Wars. Also, it directly solved the opportunistic caching problem, how to distribute automatically popular content, retrieval paths. All the forwarding peers can just remember some chunks. It's very interesting how these ideas started. And then basically we kind of coalesced in 2016. I think the first, the very first release of Philipp Wittrich in Geth, 1.5. He was in, I'm not sure of the... one second. So he was... It was December 2016, it was. Yes. And this Alpha Public pilot was released. And I remember there was already kind of how we viewed video. We call it streaming, but it's actually not video. I'm streaming it like just the video file. There was nice tweets about that, too.

SPEAKER_01: And just to take a step back, so I mean, my understanding of a primary thought that there was with Swarm was that because you could have this holy trinity, right, of sort of like decentralized compute database, the blockchain, Swarm for the decentralized file system and storage and then Whisper for that decentralized messaging that you could have this really nice kind of synergy of say a primary issue which is still really not solved of saying well how do you like host the web frontend right you know to make a whole application yes you need your smart contracts and your transactions and things but you need like an application wrapping around that. So really the thought that if you had a decentralized storage mechanism that could store like the HTML and the JavaScript and so on, that you want, like, an incentive system so that that stuff is available if people want it, you know, that you don't have a tragedy of the commons where only most popular content is available. But also, because if you're building on Ethereum, you've got the cryptocurrency to do the incentives. You've got the smart contract system that allows you to implement those incentive incentive systems. And all of these things can fit together into a like a holistic, unstoppable whole right of saying, oh, here you go. You've got your applications, which cannot be stopped. But that's the full stack. And it seems even now that there's an awful lot of stuff which is dependent on centralized hosted services. And it's very central.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, I am pretty sad about this, to be honest. I mean, there's a lot of these things. I don't know if you remember this big, I don't know, was it Bitfinex? That kind of lost the biggest crypto heist ever because of the safe, you know, what? If that had been using Swarm, then it must be much more difficult to change all these kind of transactions under the hood because they had to, what they had to do is like they hacked the person, the dev's account and then uploaded something through S3, which then which then make the safe wallet used. And of course, these are much more difficult to do if these things are, the content address is of course registered. This is how these things work. Like, you know, you start from the blockchain, you start seeing the source of truth, ENS or services as a name. You resolve it to content hash, and then the content hash is retrieved from the Swarm, from these decentralized stores.

SPEAKER_01: And I mean, again, that 2016 kind of era was when ENS was